                                            TUESDAY, JANUARY 4, 2011

                              6:00 P.M. ­ SPECIAL CITY COUNCIL MEETING

                                       Los Altos High School Eagle Theater
                                     201 Almond Avenue, Los Altos, California


ROLL CALL

DISCUSSION ITEM


1.       Blach Neighborhood Traffic Study
         Recommendation to:
         A. Direct staff to prepare future Capital Improvement Project (CIP) worksheets for the
             2011-2015 updated CIP report based on the Fehr & Peers recommendations that are
             approved by Council;
         B. Continue the "No Stopping" restriction and "Residential Permit Parking" trial program
             along Carmel Terrace and Altamead Drive until the recommended improvements on
             those streets have been installed;
         C. Authorize staff to remove the "No Stopping" restriction and terminate the "Residential
             Permit Parking" trial program once the improvements on Carmel Terrace and Altamead
             Drive have been completed; and
         D. Direct staff to conduct a before and after access and circulation study on Carmel
             Terrace and Altamead Drive and report findings back to Council one year after the
             completion of improvements on those streets

ADJOURNMENT

In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the City will make reasonable arrangements to ensure
accessibility to this meeting. If you need special assistance to participate in this meeting, please contact the City Clerk 72
hours prior to the meeting at (650) 947-2720. A sound enhancement system is available in the City Council Chambers.
You may check out headsets, which boost the public address signal during the meeting. Please ask for assistance at the
City Clerk's desk PRIOR to the start of the meeting or during a break in the meeting.
                                   AGENDA REPORT


DATE:          January 4, 2011

TO:            City Council

FROM:          Tuck Younis, Chief of Police

SUBJECT:       BLACH SCHOOL NEIGHBORHOOD TRAFFIC STUDY

RECOMMENDATION

A. Direct staff to prepare future Capital Improvement Project (CIP) worksheets for the 2011-2015
   updated CIP report based on the Fehr & Peers recommendations that are approved by Council.
B. Continue the "No Stopping" restriction and "Residential Permit Parking" trial program along
   Carmel Terrace and Altamead Drive until the recommended improvements on those streets
   have been installed.
C. Authorize staff to remove the "No Stopping" restriction and terminate the "Residential Permit
   Parking" trial program once the improvements on Carmel Terrace and Altamead Drive have
   been completed.
D. Direct staff to conduct a before and after access and circulation study on Carmel Terrace and
   Altamead Drive and report findings back to Council one year after the completion of
   improvements on those streets.

BACKGROUND

At the February 9, 2010 Council meeting, staff was directed to review traffic safety and flow for the
greater Blach School neighborhood. The request focused on the safety of students traveling to and
from Blach School. Additional areas for review were: signalization at the intersection of Miramonte
and Covington Road, no-turn restrictions on Eastwood Drive, the trial no stopping restrictions and
permit parking program behind Blach School and any additional changes that have taken place in the
last five years which changed traffic patterns in the area. The traffic consulting firm of Fehr & Peers
was retained for this review.

At the March 9, 2010 meeting, Council approved the geographic borders for the traffic study and
the public meeting notification boundaries for residential mailing. Council also directed staff to
include all Blach "feeder" schools in the notification process and work with both the School District
and the High School District to inform parents of future meetings on this issue.

On June 15, 2010, Council held a special public meeting to review preliminary information from
Fehr & Peers and receive public comments. At that meeting, Council gave staff further direction as
to the scope of the study and to report back with a final report.
City Council
January 4, 2011
Page 2

DISCUSSION

Traffic safety, congestion and flow in the greater Blach School neighborhood have been a concern
for stakeholders dating back to 2001. The first traffic calming strategy meeting occurred in August
of 2002 and focused on reducing cut-through traffic on Eastwood Drive. Ultimately in 2005, the
Eastwood Drive Neighborhood Traffic Management Plan (NTMP) was implemented limiting right
turning movements from Miramonte Avenue between 7:00 am and 10:00 am on school days. This
strategy was effective in reducing traffic volume and cut-through traffic into the neighborhood.
Additionally, it provided children using Eastwood Drive a safer walking and bicycling route to
school. An expected bi-product of the turning restriction was the redirecting of vehicular traffic to
alternative routes causing increased traffic to other neighboring streets already experiencing heavy
morning commutes.

In May of 2007, a second NTMP process began involving Carmel Terrace and Altamead Drive as a
result of neighborhood concerns related to student safety, increased traffic volumes and drop offs at
the rear of Blach School. The NTMP expanded to include Miramonte Avenue between Portland and
Covington Road, and Portland Avenue between Grant Road and Miramonte Avenue.

Republic ITS Traffic Consultant, Steve Fitzsimons, was hired in 2008 to complete an area study. The
NTMP was later suspended and withdrawn from the process in October of 2009 due to the lack of
support and agreement between residents and staff for recommended changes.

As a result of this suspended NTMP process, in November of 2009 an experimental program was
implemented at the rear of Blach School on Carmel Terrace and Altamead Drive. This one year trial
program includes a resident permit parking program and a no stopping zone. This trial program
caused numerous citizens to voice their concerns to staff and Council. Consequently, Council
directed staff to conduct a comprehensive traffic study for the greater Blach School area. The one
year trial program was extended by Council until they received the final report.

The attached final report presents the findings and conclusions of the study. Field observations,
quantitative and qualitative data, community and key stakeholders input, and the results of the traffic
analysis were taken into consideration to develop a set of recommendations to improve multi-modal
circulation in the area.

FISCAL IMPACT

To be determined by Council direction of future CIP's.

ALTERNATIVES

Council may modify recommendations and/or direct staff to do further analysis.


Attachment:
Fehr & Peers Blach Neighborhood Traffic Study (due to the large size of the file Exhibits to the
report may be viewed at City Hall)
City Council
January 4, 2011
Page 3
                                     FINAL MEMORANDUM

Date:             December 17, 2010

To:               Los Altos City Council

Cc:               Chief Tuck Younis and Sgt. Matt Hartley
                  City of Los Altos Police Department

                  Jim Gustafson and Tom Ho
                  City of Los Altos

From:             Nikki Hervol, PE and Robert Eckols, PE

Subject:          Blach Neighborhood Traffic Study
                                                                                                           SJ10-1176

The purpose of this memorandum is to summarize the data collection efforts, analysis, and
recommendations of the Blach Neighborhood Traffic Study. For this study, Fehr & Peers
observed and analyzed the auto, pedestrian and bicycle activity around Blach Intermediate
School in Los Altos, California.

Field observations, quantitative and qualitative data, community and key stakeholders' input, and
the results of the traffic analysis were taken into consideration to develop a set of
recommendations to improve multi-modal circulation in the study area. The following discussion
presents the findings and conclusions of the study.

BACKGROUND

Blach Intermediate School is one of two middle schools within the City of Los Altos. Due to the
size of the current enrollment (approximately 475 students as of 2009) and the area covered
within the school boundaries, there is a high volume of vehicular traffic generated by the school
during peak periods when parents drop off or pick up their children. Additionally, there are a large
number of students that travel to Blach School by walking, biking or scooting. This combination
of vehicles, pedestrians, and bicyclists, along with the rural roadway designs standard in the area,
create potential areas where conflicts may occur. Over the past five years several changes have
been implemented on the local roadways that were designed to enhance the pedestrian and
bicycle visibility and manage driver behavior.

A timeline of these efforts is detailed in Table 1 and a brief summary of how each affected the
study area is included below:

      ·   Eastwood Neighborhood Traffic Management (NTMP) Process ­ Initiated in 2003 by
          residents of Eastwood Drive to address cut-through traffic and speed on Eastwood Drive.
          Resulted in right-turn restriction of northbound right-turns from Miramonte Avenue onto
          Eastwood Drive during school drop-off times (7:00 AM to 10:00 AM).

      ·   Grant/Levin Housing Traffic Study ­ Traffic study for the proposed residential
          development at Grant Road/Levin Avenue (Pumpkin Patch) completed in September


             160 West Santa Clara Street, Suite 675, San Jose CA 95113 (408) 278-1700 Fax (408) 278-1717
                                                  www.fehrandpeers.com
Los Altos City Council
December 17, 2010
Page 2 of 20




        2008. Includes proposal to realign Levin Road to create a fourth leg to the Covington
        Road/Grant Road intersection.

    ·   Altamead Drive/Carmel Terrace Neighborhood Traffic Management Process (NTMP)
        Process ­ Initiated in 2006 by Altamead Drive/Carmel Terrace residents to address
        vehicular circulation and pedestrian and bicycle safety during school drop off periods.
        Resulted in one-year trial of a residential parking permit program and no stopping
        restriction during the morning drop-off period (7:00 ­ 10:00 am). The no stopping trial
        began in December 2009, and was extended by the Los Altos City Council pending the
        results of this study.

    ·   Miramonte School Traffic Study ­ Traffic study for the proposed expansion of Miramonte
        School completed in 2008. Includes proposal to realign Levin Road to create a fourth leg
        to the Covington Road/Grant Road intersection. (The expansion was later dropped.)

    ·   Covington/Miramonte Intersection Striping Proposal ­ Recommended widening the
        northbound approach to the Covington Road/Miramonte Avenue intersection. This
        improvement was not installed due to its potential impacts on school children traveling
        through the intersection.




             Table 1: Timeline of Prior Studies in Blach Neighborhood Area

Each of these studies and resulting changes were implemented independently; therefore, a
comprehensive review of multi-modal school access to and from Blach Intermediate School was
needed. In April 2010, the City Council indicated that they wanted to revisit the issue of mobility to
and from Blach Intermediate School and the effects on the local traffic patterns, and initiated this
project, the Blach School Neighborhood Traffic Study.

The project area for the Blach Neighborhood Traffic Study was defined to be generally bounded
by Grant Road on the east, Springer Road on the west, Covington Road on the north, and
Portland Avenue on the south. While the focus of the analysis is related to the access to Blach
Intermediate School, there is also pedestrian and bicycle activity in the study area by students
traveling to other local schools including Miramonte School, Loyola Elementary School, Mountain
View High School and Saint Francis High School. The study area is presented on Exhibit 1.
Los Altos City Council
December 17, 2010
Page 3 of 20




Roadways

The following section provides a brief description of each of the key roadways within the study
area. Exhibit 2 presents a map of the study area roadways, and the suggested routes to schools
within the area.

Grant Road is a north-south collector street that provides a key north-south connection between
El Camino Real (as an extension of State Route 237) in the north to Foothill Expressway (where it
becomes St. Joseph Avenue) in the south. North of Levin Avenue, Grant Road is a four-lane
roadway, and south of Levin Avenue, it is a two-lane roadway that also forms the city-limit line
between the cities of Mountain View and Los Altos. There are sidewalks and Class II bike lanes
on both sides of Grant Road from El Camino Real to Levin Avenue. The City of Mountain View is
currently completing a project to improve traffic signal coordination and traffic flow on Grant Road.
The speed limit on Grant Road is 25 mph.

Miramonte Avenue is a north-south collector street that connects the residential neighborhoods in
Los Altos and unincorporated Santa Clara County with the many commercial centers in Mountain
View. Four-lanes exist on Miramonte Avenue north of Yardis Court and two-lanes to the south.
Sidewalks exist along the east side of Miramonte Avenue and a Class III bike route is present in
the vicinity of the study area. The speed limit on Miramonte Avenue is 25 mph.

Covington Road is a two-lane east-west collector street. Covington Road starts at El Monte
Avenue in Los Altos and terminates at Grant Road. Blach Intermediate School is located on the
south side of Covington Road between Miramonte Avenue and Grant Road. A Class III bike route
exists along the entire length of the road. Sidewalks are present along the south side of the
roadway within the study area. The sidewalks between Miramonte Avenue and the Blach School
entry driveway are in poor condition with sections of asphalt and concrete construction. The
speed limit on Covington Road is 25 mph. As part of Grant/Levin Housing Project (located on the
Pumpkin Patch site), Levin Avenue will be realigned to connection to Covington Road at Grant
Road eliminating the existing off-set intersections.

Portland Avenue is a two-lane east-west roadway that
starts at Miramonte Avenue and terminates at Grant
Road. A Class III bike route exists along the entire
length of the road. The speed limit on Portland
Avenue is 25 mph.

Carmel Terrace / Altamead Drive are two-lane
roadways that provide access to the residential
neighborhood and to both Blach Intermediate and
Miramonte Elementary Schools. Carmel Terrace runs
north-south, extending from Portland Avenue to
Altamead Drive. Altamead Drive runs east-west,
extending from Grant Road to Carmel Terrace. A
pedestrian bridge is located where Carmel Terrace
and Altamead Drive intersection, which provides a
connection to the rear entrance of Blach Intermediate
School. Sidewalks exist on both sides of Altamead
Drive between Miramonte School and Carmel
Terrace; no sidewalks are provided between Grant
Road and Miramonte School. On the west side of
                                                              Students arriving at Blach School from
                                                                 Carmel Terrace/Altamead Drive
Los Altos City Council
December 17, 2010
Page 4 of 20




Carmel Terrace, a sidewalk with an approximate five foot landscape buffer is provided between
Altamead Drive and 1240 Carmel Terrace (approximately 550 feet). South of 1240 Carmel
Terrace, a wide unpaved shoulder is provided; however vehicles are frequently parked along the
shoulder which obstruct the use of the shoulder as a walking path. The speed limit on both
Carmel Terrace and Altamead Drive is 25 mph.

Eastwood Drive is a two-lane north-south roadway that supports provides access to the adjacent
neighborhood and carries some school traffic that can access the school from Muir Way.
Eastwood Drive extends from Covington Road to Miramonte Avenue. No sidewalks or bike lanes
are present along the roadway. The speed limit along Eastwood Drive is 25 mph.

Bicycle and Pedestrian Network

Bicycle facilities comprise bike (or multi-use) paths (Class I), bike lanes (Class II), bike routes
(Class III), and bike boulevards. Bike routes are roadways designated for bicycle use with signs
only. Bike boulevards are roadways where bicyclists are given priority through designated bike
lanes, signage and pavement markings, and movement at intersections with side street stop
signs.

Pedestrian access is provided via sidewalks along some sections of the collector streets in the
study area, and on the shoulders of other roadways such as Eastwood Drive and the western
side of Miramonte Avenue. Unsignalized pedestrian crossings are located on Covington Road in
front of Blach School at Thatcher Avenue and Hayman Place, on Carmel Terrace/Altamead Drive
at the rear of the school, and on Portland Avenue at Carmel Terrace. The Portland
Avenue/Carmel Terrace location is enhanced with a raised crosswalk, high visibility striping and
signing, and a crossing guard during school commute times. Controlled marked crosswalks are
provided on the east, south, and west legs of Miramonte Avenue/Covington Road intersection
and all legs of the Miramonte Avenue/Portland Avenue intersection. Pedestrian signals are
provided across Grant Road at Bryant Street and Covington Road.

An informal part of the bicycle network is the short pedestrian and bicycle paths between cul-de-
sacs and connecting to schools. These serve an essential commuter function by connecting
dead-end roads and closing the gaps in the bikeway network. These connections are one of the
most effective ways of increasing the convenience of biking and in some cases can make
bicycling even more convenient than driving. The significant reduction in travel time and the ability
to stay off higher volume and speed
roadways make them attractive to
bicyclists of all ages and abilities. Muir Way
provides such a connection to Blach
School. Bicycle parking at Blach School is
placed conveniently near the Muir Way
access point.

Each school within the study area has one
or more bicycle cage where students' bikes
can be parked. Blach Intermediate School
has one (1) bike cage at the front of the
school near Muir Way, and one (1) cage at
the rear of the school near the pedestrian
bridge to Carmel Terrace/Altamead Drive.


                                                       Bike cage at Blach School in May 2010 was
                                                               observed to be nearly full
Los Altos City Council
December 17, 2010
Page 5 of 20




DATA COLLECTION

Data collection for the study consisted of historical data and documents including prior studies
and staff reports, collision reports, memoranda, and data collected by the City of Los Altos;
volume and speed counts; field observations; and other available data, such as school district
boundaries, and key pedestrian generators (schools, parks, retail hubs, etc.). Traffic counts and
observations were also provided by the Carmel/Altamead Neighborhood Association (CANA).
New traffic data was collected in the study area on three (3) separate occasions during May, July,
and October 2010 to review conditions during the school year and summer conditions.

The following section summarizes the data that was collected for this project. The raw traffic data
is included as Attachment A. A detailed description of the traffic data collected during each
period, as well as a summary of the seasonal variation observed and a comparison to historical
data, is summarized in Attachment B.

Intersection Turning Movement Counts

Peak period intersection turning movement counts (including bicycle, pedestrian, and vehicle
volumes) were conducted at three (3) study intersections during morning (7:00 ­ 9:00 am) and
evening (4:00 ­ 6:00 pm) peak periods. The counts were tallied in 15-minute intervals during
each peak period. The following study locations were identified as key inbound and outbound
routes to and from Blach School.

    ·    Covington Road / Miramonte Avenue
    ·    Eastwood Drive / Miramonte Avenue
    ·    Covington Road / Grant Avenue

The turning movement counts were conducted on the following dates:

    ·    Wednesday and Thursday, May 19 and 201, 2010
    ·    Wednesday, July 28, 2010
    ·    Tuesday, October 19, 2010

In May, counts were conducted on two separate mid-week days (Wednesday and Thursday) to
capture a normal start (8:00 am) and a late start (~9:00 am) at Blach School.

The 15-minute traffic data were then aggregated to summarize the volume over the peak one-
hour period during the morning and evening survey periods. Exhibit 3a presents the May
intersection turning movement peak-hour data, Exhibit 3b presents the summer (July) data, and
Exhibit 3c presents the October data.

Average Daily Traffic Counts

Three-day average daily traffic (ADT) counts were collected at the following locations during May,
July, and October, as noted:

    1. Covington Road, west of Miramonte Avenue (May and July)

1
 Thursday, May 20, 2010 data included potentially abnormal travel patterns due to a field trip for students at
Blach School. To ensure typical patterns and behavior were reviewed, traffic data was also collected in
October 2010 for comparison purposes.
Los Altos City Council
December 17, 2010
Page 6 of 20




    2.    Covington Road, east of Miramonte Avenue (May and July)
    3.    Covington Road, west of Grant Road (May)
    4.    Miramonte Avenue, north of Covington Road (May and July)
    5.    Miramonte Avenue, south of Covington Road (May and July)
    6.    Portland Avenue, east of Miramonte Avenue (May and July)
    7.    Portland Avenue, west of Grant Road (May)
    8.    Eastwood Drive (May and July)
    9.    Altamead Drive (May and July)
    10.   Carmel Terrace (July and October)

The locations were identified to capture traffic entering the study area from each of the major
gateways; summer data was collected in July to compare school year to summer traffic
conditions. The Carmel Terrace location (number 10) was added to the list of study locations in
July and October to ensure that any drop-off traffic still occurring on Carmel was accounted for.

Speed data was also collected along with the traffic volumes. Exhibits 4a through 4c present the
ADT volumes and 85th percentile speeds on the study roadway segments for the May, July, and
October periods, respectively. The 85th percentile speed represents the speed at which 85
percent of vehicles are traveling at or under (i.e., 15 percent of vehicles travel over this speed).

School Year to Summer Traffic Count Comparison

By comparing the counts that were made during the school year (May and October 2010) and the
summer (July 2010), the effects of school traffic in the study area can be readily seen. On
Covington Road, Miramonte Avenue, and Portland Road, the summer traffic data show a drop in
daily traffic of between 21 percent and 35 percent. The absolute drop in traffic was between 1,193
and 1,967 daily trips. These drops reflect the combined effects of summer recess at all the area
schools and other vacations that may reduce normal commute traffic. At the intersection of
Covington Road/Miramonte Avenue, the reduction in vehicle traffic observed was 56 percent in
the morning peak hour, 34 percent during the afternoon (school dismissal period), and 19 percent
in the evening peak hour.

On the local residential streets of Eastwood Drive, Carmel Terrace, and Altamead Drive, the
percent decreases in traffic were higher than that observed on Covington Road, Miramonte
Avenue, and Portland Road. The decrease in traffic between school year and summer conditions
ranged between 37 percent and 69 percent. The absolute drop in traffic was between 186 and
641 daily trips. The more dramatic differences observed on the local residential streets indicate
the strong influence that the schools have on the travel patterns within the area.

More detail on the traffic data comparison between the school year and summer data, as well as
a comparison to historical data, is included in Attachment B.

Pedestrian & Bicycle Counts

Manual pedestrian, bicycle, and vehicular drop-off counts were conducted at the locations below
during May and October 2010 to capture the number of students arriving at each location and to
determine the time distribution of the arrivals. Exhibit 5a presents the bicycle/pedestrian counts
from May and Exhibit 5b presents the bicycle/pedestrian/drop-off counts from October.
Los Altos City Council
December 17, 2010
Page 7 of 20




    ·   Blach Intermediate School (at entry points on Covington Road
        east and west of the campus)
    ·   Muir Way
    ·   Pedestrian Bridge Entry from Carmel Terrace/Altamead Drive
    ·   Thatcher Drive from South Drive
    ·   Portland Avenue at Carmel Terrace and Concord Avenue

Collision Data Review

The reported vehicle, bicycle, and pedestrian collisions near the study area were obtained from
Statewide Integrated Traffic Reporting System (SWITRS) for the last five (5) years available,
January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2009. SWITRS is a database of reported collisions
maintained by the California Highway Patrol in Sacramento. They record all reported collisions
sent to them by local police departments. These collisions include all injury collisions and may
include Property Damage Only (PDO) crashes if they are submitted by the local police
departments. These records do not include near misses, over-the-counter reports of collisions, or
collisions on private property.

Additionally, some more recent collision records were available from the Los Altos Police
Department. These were reviewed as part of the analysis within the study area, but are not
summarized in the following statistics, as all collision records are not yet available during the most
recent months of 2010 and inclusion would represent an incomplete sample.

Collisions were analyzed by several factors, such as location, crash type, parties involved, age,
time of day, and primary collision factor. These collisions were mapped within the study area, and
are presented on Exhibit 6. Thirty-four collisions were reported within the study area during the
analysis period, with the majority of these collisions (32) being vehicle-vehicle collisions. The
remaining two (2) included vehicle-bicycle collisions, which occurred at the Covington Road/
Hayman Place and Covington Road/Grant Road intersections:

    ·   At Covington Road/Hayman Place, a 73-year old bicyclist was hit when a driver opened
        the door of a parked car at approximately 8:30am on a Saturday morning in September
        2005. The bicyclist was injured, and the motorist was determined to be at fault in this
        collision.
    ·   At Covington Road/Grant Road, a 12-year old bicyclist was hit by a vehicle making a
        right-turn at 3:00pm on a Monday afternoon in November 2005. No injuries were
        reported, and the motorist was determined to be at fault in this collision.

No pedestrian collisions were recorded during the analysis period. Twelve (12) injuries and no
fatalities were reported.

A majority of collisions (10 of 32) occurred at the Covington Road/Miramonte Avenue intersection,
including five (5) injury collisions. Eight (8) of these collisions were broadside collisions, where a
motorist turning collided with a vehicle proceeding straight through the intersection.

Field Observations

Field observations were completed during the morning and evening peak commute periods in
May, July, and October 2010. Field visits were focused to observe vehicle, bicycle, and
Los Altos City Council
December 17, 2010
Page 8 of 20




pedestrian travel patterns, interaction, and behavior. For example, observations are based on
how motorists are behaving around pedestrians, and how pedestrians are behaving, especially at
intersections or crossings (for example, if pedestrians are crossing at unmarked locations to avoid
certain intersections, why might they feel the need to do so?).

Generally, the neighborhood is active: many people were observed walking, biking, and
skateboarding. A greater number of bicyclists and pedestrians were observed during the morning
school drop-off time than the afternoon school pick up time, but there are pedestrians/bikes
present during all periods observed. Field observations are presented on Exhibit 7 and are
summarized below.

Bicycle/Pedestrian Observations

    ·   Majority of students walking
        and bicycling to Blach
        Intermediate School use the
        sidewalk or bike lane to
        travel towards the school on
        the south side of Covington
        Road.




    ·   A narrow sidewalk with poor
        pavement     conditions    is
        present to the east of Blach
        Intermediate School on the
        south side of Covington
        Road.




    ·   Drivers were observed to be
        aggressive at the Covington
        Road/        Grant        Road
        intersection during a red light
        with    an    adult    bicyclist
        traveling southbound.
Los Altos City Council
December 17, 2010
Page 9 of 20




    ·   Bike rack full when school is
        session: more bikes in the bike
        cage and the rack is overflowing.




    ·   On Covington Road, approximately
        half of students walk in the street,
        approximately half walk on unpaved
        shoulder.




    ·   During rainy days, many drop-offs on
        south side of Altamead between
        Carmel and Miramonte School.
        Some Blach students are dropped-off
        at Miramonte School to avoid the No
        Stopping Zone.
Los Altos City Council
December 17, 2010
Page 10 of 20




Vehicular Traffic Observations

    ·   Heavy vehicle queues were observed at the
        Covington       Road/Miramonte      Avenue
        intersection during the morning peak period.
        Queues on the northbound approach were
        21 or more vehicles; queues on the
        southbound approach were 20 or more
        vehicles; queues on the eastbound
        approach were 41 or more vehicles; and
        queues at the westbound approach were 15
        or more vehicles.



Community Input

The following section summarizes the community input gathered as part of this study.
Attachment C includes additional detail on the attendees at each meeting and comments
provided.

Kick-off Meeting

A joint kick-off meeting with City staff, Blach School teachers and administrators, and
neighborhood residents was held on June 2, 2010. The meeting enabled identification of any
specific concerns at the School related to access; and review on-site data regarding street
geometry, user behavior, parking, and circulation issues with school and City staff and other
stakeholders.

A sign-in sheet as well as a summary of key issues discussed at the stakeholder kick-off meeting
is presented in Attachment C.

Los Altos City Council Meeting

A Los Altos City Council study session was held on June 15, 2010 at the Los Altos High School
Auditorium to present the traffic data collected for this study, as summarized in the preceding
section. Approximately 100 residents, Blach School students, and teachers attended the meeting
to voice their concerns and recommendations for improving access to and circulation around
Blach School. Additionally, many residents who could not attend the meeting submitted written
comments to the City Council and staff via email. A summary of the concerns described during
the meeting and those submitted via email is provided in Attachment C. The Council
recommendation at this meeting requested that that Blach School study collect summer traffic
data (completed in July 2010), and review the entirety of the study area with a `clean slate' to
develop recommendations that would best improve students' safety traveling to and from the
school.

Los Altos School Board Meeting

A presentation of the traffic data collected was also given to the Los Altos School Board on
September 13, 2010. Residents, parents, and teachers were also given the opportunity to
address the Board to voice concerns at this meeting. Approximately 15 attendees highlighted
Los Altos City Council
December 17, 2010
Page 11 of 20




issues related to traffic and student safety. A summary of the issues described is provided in
Attachment C.

TRAFFIC ANALYSIS

The following section summarizes the analysis completed using the traffic data collected in the
section above.

Intersection Analysis

The operations of the study intersections were evaluated using level of service (LOS) calculations
based on the Highway Capacity Manual (Chapter 16, Transportation Research Board, 2000) and
the Synchro analysis software. This method determines level of service rating based on the
average control delay experienced at the intersection. The average delay for signalized and
unsignalized (stop-controlled) intersections is correlated to level of service designations as
summarized in Table 2.


                                               TABLE 2
                               INTERSECTION LEVEL OF SERVICE DEFINITIONS


                                                       Signalized Intersection   Stop Control Average
   Level of                                           Average Control Delay Per Control Delay Per Vehicle
   Service                  Description                  Vehicle (Seconds)             (Seconds)
       A                  Little or no delay.                     10.0                         10.0
       B                Short traffic delays.                10.1 and  20.0                 10.1 to 15.0
       C               Average traffic delays.               20.1 and  35.0                 15.1 to 25.0
       D                 Long traffic delays.                35.1 and  55.0                 25.1 to 35.0
       E              Very long traffic delays.              55.1 and  80.0                 35.1 to 50.0
                     Extreme traffic delays with
       F                                                         > 80.1                       > 50.0
                  intersection capacity exceeded.
 Source: Highway Capacity Manual Chapters 16 and 17, Transportation Research Board, 2000.


To evaluate existing operations, the existing traffic volumes, lane configurations, signal phasing
and timings were used as inputs to the LOS calculations. Exhibits 3a through 3c present the
peak-hour vehicular, bicycle, and pedestrian volumes at the study intersections using data
collected in May, July, and October 2010. The results of the LOS calculations are presented in
Table 3, and calculation sheets are included in Attachment D.

As shown in Table 3, the Covington Road/Miramonte Avenue intersection operates at LOS E
during the morning and LOS D during the evening peak hours during the school year (May and
October). During the summer, the intersection operates at LOS B during the morning peak hour,
due to reduced vehicle and pedestrian demand. Eastwood Drive/Miramonte Avenue and
Covington Road/Grant Road operate at LOS C or better during the morning and evening peak
hours during the school year.
Los Altos City Council
December 17, 2010
Page 12 of 20




                                               TABLE 3
                               EXISTING INTERSECTION LEVELS OF SERVICE


                                                               May 2010             July 2010       October
                                                                                                     2010
                                Traffic      Peak     Wednesday       Thursday
          Intersection          Control      Hour                                     LOS1            LOS1
                                                        LOS
                                                            1
                                                                       LOS1

 1.   Covington Road/           All way      AM            D               E            B               E
      Miramonte Avenue           stop        PM            D               D            -               -
 2.   Eastwood Drive/             Side-      AM            B               B             -              B
      Miramonte Avenue         street stop   PM            C               C             -              -
 3.   Covington Road/                        AM            C               C             -              C
                                 Signal
      Grant Avenue                           PM            B               C             -              -
 Notes:
 1 LOS calculations performed using the 2000 Highway Capacity Manual - Special Report 209 delay methods for
 signalized and unsignalized intersections using the Synchro software package.

 Source: Fehr & Peers, 2010.


Signal Warrants


A signal warrant analysis was                                        TABLE 4
conducted     for    the   Covington                    COVINGTON/MIRAMONTE INTERSECTION
Road/Miramonte Avenue intersection                          SIGNAL WARRANT SUMMARY
using the traffic data summarized in
the preceding section. This analysis                             Warrant                            Met?
applied the traffic signal warrants
recommended in the Federal Highway                Warrant 1: Eight-Hour Volume                       No
Administration Manual on Uniform                  Warrant 2: Four-Hour Volume                       Yes
Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD,
                                                  Warrant 3: Peak-Hour Volume                       Yes1
2003) and associated State guidelines
(2010).                                           Warrant 4: Pedestrian Volume                       No
                                                  Warrant 5: School Crossing                        Yes
Three of the warrants were met, as
                                      Warrant 6: Coordinated Signal System                      N/A
described below. The worksheets for
warrants 1, 2, 3, and 4 and collision Warrant 7: Crash Experience                                No
data are included in Attachment E.    Warrant 8: Roadway Network                                N/A
The warrant analysis, summarized in   Source: Fehr & Peers, 2010.
Table 4, shows that the four-hour,    1
                                        Delay criterion for peak hour warrant only applicable to side-street
peak hour, and school crossing                stop controlled intersections. Volume criterion is met.
warrants are met. The pedestrian
warrants from the 2010 California MUTCD, as well as the updated 2009 Federal Highway
Administration MUTCD were not met.
Los Altos City Council
December 17, 2010
Page 13 of 20




Walking Audit

In September 2010, a walking audit of the study area was completed by Fehr & Peers with Los
Altos Traffic Commissioner Bill Crook. A walking audit serves the key purpose of assessing multi-
modal access needs at key locations within the study area. The walking audit made note of
pedestrian and bicycle-related facilities, opportunities, and constraints, including but not limited to
the following: crosswalks, traffic signals, pedestrian signals, curb ramps, ADA non-compliant
facilities, distance of separation between pedestrians and traffic, and signage. Parking patterns,
occupancy, vehicle queues, driver behavior and other trends were also observed. The walking
audit results are incorporated into the recommendations detailed in the following section.

RECOMMENDATIONS

Based on the traffic data, field observations, walking audit, intersection analysis, and community
input, recommendations for improving the main routes to Blach Intermediate School were
identified. Recommendations include vehicle, bicycle, and pedestrian improvements; however, an
emphasis was placed on improvements that preserve or enhance bicycle and pedestrian access
to the School. Exhibit 8 presents the recommendations in the study area, and the following
section summarizes the improvements.

Examples of the treatments are provided in Attachment F.

Create New Class 1 Paths

In order to enhance the bicycle and pedestrian safety of students accessing Blach Intermediate
School provide two new Class I paths on Covington Road and Carmel Terrace. These paths
would separate bicycle-pedestrian traffic from vehicular traffic, and help to reduce wrong-way on-
street bicycling.

Covington Road

    ·   Provide a Class I path on the south side of Covington Road between Miramonte Avenue
        and Blach Intermediate School.

    ·   Tighten corner radius at Blach Intermediate School entrance to slow turning vehicles and
        widen the sidewalk as it enters the school grounds.

    ·   Covington Road/Eastwood Drive intersection: Tighten corner radii to slow down turning
        vehicles that cross and conflict with the bicycle-pedestrian traffic.

    ·   Potential impacts: need for additional right-of-way, possible parking restrictions or losses
        in some locations along route.

Carmel Terrace

    ·   Provide Class I path on west side of Carmel Terrace from Portland Road to Altamead
        Road.
Los Altos City Council
December 17, 2010
Page 14 of 20




Covington Road/Miramonte Avenue Traffic Signal

    ·   Build out corners to provide queuing area for students waiting to cross the intersection
        and preserve the southeast corner area for bicyclists to remount after walking bikes
        through crosswalk

    ·   Add advanced stop bars to limit vehicle encroachment into the crosswalks

    ·   Install a traffic signal with single-lane approaches and permitted phasing. A traffic signal
        at this intersection would improve right-of-way control and visibility for
        pedestrians/bicyclists and reduce delay to motorists. There would still be vehicle queuing
        at the intersection during the morning and evening peak hours, but overall delay to
        vehicles would be substantially reduced. The installation of a traffic signal at this
        intersection should be coordinated with any recommendations coming from the on-going
        traffic calming study.

            o   With signalization, provide crosswalks on all four legs including across north leg
                (Miramonte Avenue)

            o   Consider operating the signal in a rest in an all-red condition so that the current
                required stop is maintained during low-demand times of day

Eastwood Drive

    ·   Tighten corner radius at Miramonte Avenue/Eastwood Drive intersection

    ·   Add traffic circles at Muir Way and Eastwood Court intersections to slow vehicle traffic
        and encourage bicycle use

    ·   Consider striping bike lanes or adding shoulder stripe to provide a delineated area to ride
        and narrow travel lanes to reduce vehicle speeds

    ·   Encourage bicycle access to Blach Intermediate School via Eastwood Drive and Muir
        Way to reduce the conflicts at the main driveway to the school.

    ·   With these traffic calming improvements and the signalization of Miramonte
        Avenue/Covington Road, consider lifting morning peak period right-turn restriction from
        Miramonte Avenue to Eastwood Drive

Altamead Drive

    ·   Enhance existing crosswalk with high visibility crosswalk striping and signing, add refuge
        median, and provide ADA-compliant curb ramps

    ·   Add bike lanes or shoulder stripe between Grant Road and Blach School entrance to
        provide delineated area to ride and narrow travel lanes to reduce vehicle speeds

Carmel Terrace/Altamead Drive

Along Carmel Terrace and Altamead Drive, we recommend that the current no stopping
restriction be maintained until a Class I path on Carmel Terrace and Altamead Drive striping
Los Altos City Council
December 17, 2010
Page 15 of 20




improvements (as described above) are constructed and operational. Once these improvements
have been installed, if student drop-off is reinstated, u-turn maneuvers will likely need to be
addressed. We recommend that the City:

    ·   Remove the no stopping restriction on a trial basis (3 to 6-month period) between the
        Carmel Terrace/Altamead Drive L-intersection and the edge of the Water District frontage
        on Altamead Drive (approximately 200 feet)

    ·   Conduct before and after studies to document the changes in travel patterns with the
        construction of the improvements and removal of the no stopping restriction

    ·   If access and circulation issues are observed in the study, consider the following:

            o   Option A: Provide median island on Altamead Drive near rear school entry to
                delineate a formal drop-off area on either side of Altamead Drive just east of the
                existing crosswalk

                         Requires widening this section of Altamead Drive

                         Requires parking restriction in drop-off area

                         Consider student valet for drop-offs

            o   Option B: Restore the no stopping restriction during the morning peak period

    ·   Improvements noted in the Grant Road section below, including possible signalization of
        Grant Road/Portland Avenue, may also help alleviate focused traffic congestion on
        Carmel Terrace and Altamead Drive during the school peaks

Miramonte Avenue

    ·   A sidewalk with landscape buffer currently exists on the eastern side of Miramonte
        Avenue between Portland Avenue and Eastwood Drive; however, north of Eastwood
        Drive, no sidewalk is provided, and in places, minimal shoulder width exists to provide a
        clear walking path. Extending the sidewalk on the east side of Miramonte Avenue from
        Eastwood Drive to Covington Road is recommended; at a minimum, the shoulder should
        be widened to provide a clear walking path outside the travel lane.

    ·   At Berry Avenue, install a high visibility crosswalk with refuge median island, advanced
        pavement legends, advanced signage, and pole-mounted pedestrian-actuated flashing
        beacon This crosswalk would provide a connection to Loyola Elementary School, and
        should tie in with the existing Class I path on the south side of Berry Avenue. This
        recommendation should be coordinated with the ongoing traffic calming study.

    ·   At Portland Avenue, bulb out the southeastern corner to provide a queuing area for
        pedestrian traffic

Portland Avenue

    ·   Runnymead Drive/Heritage Oaks Park
Los Altos City Council
December 17, 2010
Page 16 of 20




            o   Provide high visibility crosswalk to serve pedestrians accessing Heritage Oaks
                Park

            o   Extend existing median through the off-set Runnymead Drive/McKenzie Avenue
                intersection which will enhance pedestrian safety and provide a better visual
                queue for drivers approaching the tree located in the median.

    ·   Buckingham Drive consider the following improvements to enhance pedestrian
        accommodation

            o   Shift Buckingham Drive stop-bar back to behind pedestrian crossing

            o   Consider reconfiguring intersection as noted in Exhibit 8

Grant Road

    ·   Provide Class I path on west side between Altamead Drive and Bryant Avenue to
        accommodate bicyclists access Mountain View High School

    ·   Portland Road/Grant Road ­ Work with the City of Mountain View to determine if this
        intersection could be signalized and added to the signal system on Grant Avenue.
        Signalizing this intersection would reduce the potential of traffic using Carmel Terrace
        and Altamead Road as an alternative route to Mountain View High School or bypass the
        congestion at Grant Road/Bryant Avenue during school peaks.

    ·   At Covington Road, add advanced stop bars to discourage vehicle encroachment into
        crosswalks.

PRIORITIZATION AND COST

The previous section described each of the recommendations within the study area, to present
the system-wide improvements and provide context for each individual improvement. However,
all of the improvements together represent a large financial investment, as well as potentially
extensive modifications to traffic behavior and patterns. We recommend that the improvements
be phased to implement the highest priority improvements first, and implement later phases as
needed within the study area. The following section details the relative prioritization and cost of
each of the improvements recommended.

Improvements Included as Part of Other Projects

Several of the improvements recommended above are planned for implementation or further
evaluation as part of other ongoing projects, including the City's Safe Routes to Schools program,
the Citywide Traffic Calming Master Plan, and the Citywide Bicycle Master Plan Update. Table 5
below summarizes the improvements that have been identified as part of other ongoing projects.
While some of the recommendations listed below are also identified in this study, others will
further enhance the pedestrian and bicycle access to Blach Middle School.
Los Altos City Council
December 17, 2010
Page 17 of 20




                                                  TABLE 5
                                         ONGOING PROJECTS SUMMARY


    LOCATION                  RECOMMENDATION                                           STATUS
                                                                  ·     Planned for implementation as part of Safe
                        ·    Provide Class I path on west               Routes to Schools program and identified as
 Grant Road                  side between Altamead Drive                a long-term project in the City's Draft Bicycle
                             and Bryant Avenue                          Transportation Plan Update
                        ·    Enhance existing crosswalks
                             to raised                            ·     Proposed as part of the Draft Citywide
 Covington Road
                        ·    Median between Miramonte                   Traffic Calming Master Plan project
                             Avenue and Hayman Place
                        ·    Mini-roundabout at Eastwood
                                                          ·             Proposed as part of the Draft Citywide
                             Drive
                                                                        Traffic Calming Master Plan project
                        ·    Raised intersection at Berry
                                                          ·             Proposed as part of the Draft Citywide
 Miramonte Avenue            Avenue
                                                                        Traffic Calming Master Plan project
                        ·    Class I path on east side
                                                          ·             Proposed as a mid-term project in the City's
                             between Fremont Avenue to
                                                                        Draft Bicycle Transportation Plan Update
                             northern City limit
                                                                  ·     Proposed as a long-term project in the City's
 Carmel Terrace         ·    Class I Path
                                                                        Draft Bicycle Transportation Plan Update
                                                                  ·     Proposed as a long-term project in the City's
 Altamead Drive         ·    Class III Bike Route
                                                                        Draft Bicycle Transportation Plan Update
 Source: Compiled by Fehr & Peers, December 2010. Draft Citywide Traffic Calming Master Plan and Draft Bicycle
        Transportation Plan Update.




Tier 1: High Priority Improvements

The first level of improvements, those that have the largest impact to student's safety and
circulation, are recommended as part of Tier 1. These infrastructure improvements address the
most critical circulation issues and concerns, as well as high-collision locations. Tier 1
improvements are detailed below.


                                                     TABLE 5
                                        TIER ONE IMPROVEMENTS SUMMARY


    LOCATION                 RECOMMENDATION                           CONCERN ADDRESSED                COST ESTIMATE
                                                              ·        Separates bicycle and
                                                                       pedestrian traffic from
                        ·    Provide Class I path on                   vehicle traffic.
 Carmel Terrace                                                                                            $292,000
                             west side
                                                              ·        Wrong way bicycle riding
                                                                       and scooting.
Los Altos City Council
December 17, 2010
Page 18 of 20




                                                       TABLE 5
                                          TIER ONE IMPROVEMENTS SUMMARY


    LOCATION                  RECOMMENDATION                         CONCERN ADDRESSED                COST ESTIMATE
                                                                 ·    Separates bicycle and
                                                                      pedestrian traffic from
                         ·    Provide Class I path on                 vehicle traffic.
 Covington Road                                                                                          $276,000
                              south side
                                                                 ·    Wrong way bicycle riding
                                                                      and scooting.

                         ·    Install 2-phase traffic signal.    ·    Improve traffic flow and
                                                                      reduce vehicular delay.
                         ·    Add crosswalk across north                                           $150,000 for signal
                              leg.                               ·    Improve intersection right-
                                                                                                  $1,500 for crosswalk
                                                                      of-way control and driver
                         ·    Add advanced stop bars.                                                   striping
 Covington Road/                                                      yielding.
 Miramonte Avenue        ·    Build out corners to improve                                        $2,200 for advanced
                                                                 ·    Batch pedestrian crossings.
                              pedestrian and bicycle                                                   stop bars
                              storage areas.                     ·    Resting in all-red reduces   $20,000 for corner
                                                                      potential for speeding         improvements
                         ·    Rest signal in all-red during           through the intersection on
                              off-peak times.                         major street approaches.
                                                                 ·    Narrow travel way for
                                                                      vehicular traffic,
                                                                      encouraging reduced
                         ·    Add shoulder stripe or bike             speeds.
 Altamead Drive               lanes between Grant Road           ·    Delineate area for bicycle         $18,900
                              and Carmel Terrace                      travel.
                                                                 ·    Provide connection to
                                                                      Blach, MVHS, and
                                                                      Miramonte School.
                                                                 ·    Vehicles currently travel
                         ·    Relocate stop bar on                    through crossing area
 Portland Avenue/
                              Buckingham Drive to behind              before stopping, creating a         $400
 Buckingham Drive
                              pedestrian crossing                     potential conflict with
                                                                      pedestrians
 Source: Fehr & Peers, December 2010.
 Cost estimates include 40% markup for design, traffic control and mobilization, and contingencies.


Tier 2: Medium-Priority Improvements

The second level of improvements, those that have a mid-range impact on student safety and
circulation, are recommended as part of Tier 2. These infrastructure improvements address the
next level of circulation issues and concerns, and complement the improvements identified in Tier
1. Before Tier 2 improvements are implemented, it is recommended that the City assess the
efficacy of the Tier 1 improvements, and consider reprioritizing the Tier 2 and Tier 3
improvements. Tier 2 improvements are detailed below.
Los Altos City Council
December 17, 2010
Page 19 of 20




                                                   TABLE 6
                                       TIER TWO IMPROVEMENTS SUMMARY


                                                                                                          COST
    LOCATION                   RECOMMENDATION                         CONCERN ADDRESSED                 ESTIMATE
                         ·    Extend east side sidewalk
                                                                                                        $89,000 for
                              from Eastwood Drive to       ·           Provide space for
                                                                                                         sidewalk
                              Covington Road                           pedestrians to walk
 Miramonte Avenue                                                                                       $21,000 for
                         ·    At Portland Avenue, bulb out ·           Provide queuing area for
                                                                                                          corner
                              the southeast corner and add             pedestrian traffic
                                                                                                       improvements
                              advanced stop bars
                         ·    Tighten corner radii at             ·    Slows vehicle speeds             $50,000 for
                              Miramonte Avenue and                     entering Eastwood Drive            corner
 Eastwood Drive               Covington Road                      ·    Provide space for               improvements
                         ·    Add shoulder stripe or bike              bicyclists, slow vehicle         $14,600 for
                              lanes                                    speeds                             striping
                         ·    Tighten corner radius at            ·    Slow vehicles turning onto       $21,000 for
                              western driveway on                      school property                    corner
 Blach Intermediate           Covington Road                                                           improvements
 School Entrance                                                  ·    Improve circulation for
                         ·    Widen sidewalk on west side              students walking onto            $24,900 for
                              of parking lot                           campus                            sidewalk
                                                                  ·    Improves visibility of
                         ·    Enhance existing crosswalk               existing crosswalk
                                                                                                         $7,600 for
                              at Miramonte School with            ·    Median serves dual                 crosswalk
                              high visibility striping and             purpose of pedestrian
 Altamead Drive                                                                                          $17,500 for
                              signing, add refuge island,              refuge and traffic calming
                                                                                                           median
                              and provide ADA-compliant                device
                              curb ramps                                                              $8,700 for ramps
                                                                  ·    Curb ramps provide
                                                                       accessible crossing
                                                                  ·    Discourages vehicle
 Covington Road/
                         ·    Add advanced stop bars                   encroachment into                  $1,100
 Grant Road
                                                                       crosswalk
                                                                  ·     Provide crossing
                                                                        opportunity serving
                          ·    Install high visibility                  Heritage Oaks Park              $7,600 for
 Portland Avenue/              crosswalk                          ·    Median serves dual                crosswalk
 Runnymead Drive          ·    Extend median through                   purpose of pedestrian            $21,700 for
                               Runnymead/McKenzie                      refuge and traffic calming         median
                                                                       device, improves visibility
                                                                       of /protection of tree
 Source: Fehr & Peers, December 2010.
 Cost estimates include 40% markup for design, traffic control and mobilization, and contingencies.




Tier 3: Low-Priority Improvements

The third level of improvements includes those that have a long-range impact on student safety
and circulation. These infrastructure improvements address the next level of circulation issues
Los Altos City Council
December 17, 2010
Page 20 of 20




and concerns, and installation of the improvements identified in Tiers 1 and 2. Before Tier 3
improvements are implemented, it is recommended that the City assess the efficacy of the prior
improvements, and consider reprioritizing those remaining. Tier 3 improvements are detailed
below.


                                                    TABLE 7
                                      TIER THREE IMPROVEMENTS SUMMARY


                                                                                                        COST
    LOCATION                   RECOMMENDATION                         CONCERN ADDRESSED               ESTIMATE
                                                                  ·    Channels pedestrians from  $10,800 for
                         ·     At Berry Avenue, install high           Berry to east side of        striping
                               visibility crosswalk with:              Miramonte Avenue, with     $17,500 for
                              o Median refuge island                   existing sidewalk            median
 Miramonte Avenue             o Advanced pavement                 ·    Median provides traffic     $3,800 for
                                   legends and signage                 calming benefits          advance signs
                              o Pole-mounted pedestrian-          ·    Provides connection to    and markings
                                   actuated flashing beacon            Class I path on Berry       $8,700 for
                                                                       Avenue                       beacon
 Portland Avenue/        ·    Consider reconfiguring the          ·    Vehicles traveling through
                                                                                                       $8,400
 Buckingham Drive             intersection per Exhibit 8               pedestrian path
                                                                  ·    Slow vehicle traffic to
                         ·    Add traffic circles at Muir
 Eastwood Drive                                                        minimize conflicts with         $33,600
                              Way and Eastwood Court
                                                                       bicycles
                         ·    Work with Mountain View to          ·    Reduce cut through traffic
 Grant Road/
                              evaluate potential                       on Carmel Terrace/         $15,000 for study
 Portland Road
                              signalization                            Altamead Drive
 Source: Fehr & Peers, December 2010.
 Cost estimates include 40% markup for design, traffic control and mobilization, and contingencies.
              ATTACHMENT A
                Traffic Data

  Peak Hour Intersection Turning Movement Counts
           Pedestrian and Bicycle Counts
     Daily Roadway Volume and Speed Counts

For May 2010, July 2010, and October 2010 Conditions
                                                                        Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                               Traffic Data Service
                                                                                Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                       Campbell, CA
                                                                               (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                     (408) 377-2988
                                                                               tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name         : 11AM FINAL                                                                 tdsbay@cs.com                                         File Name               : 11AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code         : 00000011                                                                                                                         Site Code               : 00000011
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date        : 5/19/2010                                                                                                                        Start Date              : 5/19/2010
                                                                                                                                                   Page No           :1                                                                                                                                 Page No                 :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          THATCHER DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Out           In     Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3       9      12
                                                                         Groups Printed- Vehicles
                      THATCHER DR                              COVINGTON RD                                                                         COVINGTON RD                                                                                  0     0                     0       9
                        Southbound                                Westbound                       Northbound                                          Eastbound                                                                               Right Thru               Left       Peds
 Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                 App. Total   Right    Thru Left Peds        App. Total   Int. Total
  07:00 AM       0      0    0     2              2       0       0    0    1         1     0     0    0     1                        1       0       2    0     1                3          7
  07:15 AM       0      0    0     2              2       0       0    0    0         0     0     0    0     0                        0       0       2    0     0                2          4
  07:30 AM       0      0    0     0              0       0       1    0    0         1     0     0    0     3                        3       0       0    0     1                1          5
  07:45 AM       0      1    0     0              1       0       0    0    0         0     0     0    0     0                        0       0       3    0     0                3          4
      Total      0      1    0     4              5       0       1    0    1         2     0     0    0     4                        4       0       7    0     2                9         20

  08:00 AM       0     0      0      7            7       0      0      0      1            1       0      0      0      2            2       0       0       0      1           1          11
  08:15 AM       0     0      0      2            2       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      1            1       0       9       0      2          11          14                                               Peak Hour Data
  08:30 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0      1      0      2            3       0      0      0      3            3       0      16       3      0          19          25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    37


                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Left
  08:45 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0      2      0      2            4       0      0      0      2            2       0       2       0      1           3           9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Out
      Total      0     0      0      9            9       0      3      0      5            8       0      0      0      8            8       0      27       3      4          34          59




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            27
                                                                                                                                                                                                     COVINGTON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COVINGTON RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Peds Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                             34
 Grand Total     0      1     0      13         14        0       4     0       6         10        0      0      0      12         12        0       34      3       6         43          79




                                                                                                                                                                                                           In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  In
  Apprch %       0    7.1     0    92.9                   0      40     0      60                   0      0      0     100                   0     79.1      7      14                                                                    Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8
    Total %      0    1.3     0    16.5      17.7         0     5.1     0     7.6      12.7         0      0      0    15.2      15.2         0       43    3.8     7.6      54.4                                                          Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           35
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5
                     THATCHER DR                               COVINGTON RD                                                                         COVINGTON RD
                      Southbound                                 Westbound                                 Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru    Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
  08:00 AM        0       0     0      7        7    0    0              0      1           1       0       0      0      2           2       0        0       0      1          1          11
  08:15 AM        0       0     0      2        2    0    0              0      0           0       0       0      0      1           1       0        9       0      2         11          14
  08:30 AM        0       0     0      0        0    0    1              0      2           3       0       0      0      3           3       0       16       3      0         19          25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Left           Thru Right Peds
  08:45 AM        0       0     0      0        0    0    2              0      2           4       0       0      0      2           2       0        2       0      1          3           9                                                        0           0    0     8
 Total Volume     0       0     0      9        9    0    3              0      5           8       0       0      0      8           8       0       27       3      4         34          59
 % App. Total     0       0     0 100                0 37.5              0   62.5                   0       0      0    100                   0     79.4     8.8   11.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0            8              8
         PHF .000 .000 .000 .321             .321 .000 .375           .000   .625      .500      .000    .000   .000   .667      .667      .000     .422   .250    .500      .447        .590
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Out              In              Total
                                                                         Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                                                                                 Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                         Campbell, CA
                                                                                (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                       (408) 377-2988
                                                                                tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name          : 11PM FINAL                                                                  tdsbay@cs.com                                         File Name              : 11PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                    Site Code          : 00000011                                                                                                                          Site Code              : 00000011
                                                                                                                                                    Start Date         : 5/19/2010                                                                                                                         Start Date             : 5/19/2010
                                                                                                                                                    Page No            :1                                                                                                                                  Page No                :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             THATCHER DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Out           In     Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1       5       6
                                                                          Groups Printed- Vehicles
                       THATCHER DR                              COVINGTON RD                                                                         COVINGTON RD                                                                                    4     0                     0       1
                         Southbound                                Westbound                       Northbound                                          Eastbound                                                                                 Right Thru               Left       Peds
 Start Time Right     Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                 App. Total   Right    Thru Left Peds         App. Total   Int. Total
  04:00 PM       1       0    0     0              1       0       0    0    1         1     0     0    0     0                        0       0       0    0     2                2           4
  04:15 PM       0       0    0     1              1       0       3    0    2         5     0     0    0     2                        2       0       0    0     8                8          16
  04:30 PM       1       0    0     0              1       0       2    0    0         2     0     0    0     1                        1       0       2    0    11               13          17
  04:45 PM       2       0    0     0              2       0       0    0    2         2     0     0    0     3                        3       0       0    1     5                6          13
      Total      4       0    0     1              5       0       5    0    5       10      0     0    0     6                        6       0       2    1    26               29          50

  05:00 PM       1      0      0      0            1       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      1            1       0        1       0      4            5          7
  05:15 PM       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      1            1       0      0      0      1            1       0        0       0      0            0          2                                                Peak Hour Data
  05:30 PM       0      0      0      1            1       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      2            2       0        0       0      2            2          5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      41


                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Left
  05:45 PM       0      0      0      0            0       0      3      0      0            3       0      0      0      2            2       0        0       0      0            0          5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Out
      Total      1      0      0      1            2       0      3      0      1            4       0      0      0      6            6       0        1       0      6            7         19




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                       COVINGTON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               COVINGTON RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Peds Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                               32
 Grand Total      5     0      0       2           7       0       8     0       6         14        0      0      0      12         12        0        3       1     32          36          69




                                                                                                                                                                                                             In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    In
  Apprch %     71.4     0      0    28.6                   0    57.1     0    42.9                   0      0      0     100                   0      8.3     2.8    88.9                                                                     Peak Hour Begins at 04:15 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       9
    Total %     7.2     0      0     2.9      10.1         0    11.6     0     8.7      20.3         0      0      0    17.4      17.4         0      4.3     1.4    46.4      52.2                                                           Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          9
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             28




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4
                      THATCHER DR                               COVINGTON RD                                                                         COVINGTON RD
                       Southbound                                 Westbound                                 Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right     Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru     Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:15 PM
  04:15 PM        0       0     0      1        1    0    3               0      2           5       0       0      0      2           2       0         0       0      8          8          16
  04:30 PM        1       0     0      0        1    0    2               0      0           2       0       0      0      1           1       0         2       0     11         13          17
  04:45 PM        2       0     0      0        2    0    0               0      2           2       0       0      0      3           3       0         0       1      5          6          13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Left           Thru Right Peds
  05:00 PM        1       0     0      0        1    0    0               0      0           0       0       0      0      1           1       0         1       0      4          5           7                                                         0           0    0     7
 Total Volume     4       0     0      1        5    0    5               0      4           9       0       0      0      7           7       0         3       1     28         32          53
 % App. Total   80        0     0     20             0 55.6               0   44.4                   0       0      0    100                   0       9.4     3.1   87.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0            7              7
         PHF .500 .000 .000 .250             .625 .000 .417            .000   .500      .450      .000    .000   .000   .583      .583      .000     .375    .250    .636      .615        .779
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Out              In              Total
                                                                        Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                              Traffic Data Service
                                                                                Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                      Campbell, CA
                                                                               (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                    (408) 377-2988
                                                                               tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name        : 12AM FINAL                                                                 tdsbay@cs.com                                      File Name               : 12AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code        : 00000012                                                                                                                      Site Code               : 00000012
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date       : 5/19/2010                                                                                                                     Start Date              : 5/19/2010
                                                                                                                                                   Page No          :1                                                                                                                              Page No                 :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HAYMAN PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Out              In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0          10    10
                                                                         Groups Printed- Vehicles
                       HAYMAN PL                               COVINGTON RD                      HAYMAN PL                                          COVINGTON RD                                                                                 0     0                  0      10
                        Southbound                                Westbound                       Northbound                                          Eastbound                                                                              Right Thru            Left       Peds
 Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                 App. Total   Right    Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
  07:00 AM       0      0    0     0              0       0       0    0    0         0     0     0    0     1                        1       0       2    0     0               2          3
  07:15 AM       0      0    0     0              0       0       0    0    0         0     0     0    0     0                        0       0       1    0     0               1          1
  07:30 AM       0      0    0     0              0       0       0    0    0         0     0     0    0     0                        0       0       0    0     0               0          0
  07:45 AM       0      1    0     0              1       0       1    0    0         1     0     0    0     3                        3       0       4    0     0               4          9
      Total      0      1    0     0              1       0       1    0    0         1     0     0    0     4                        4       0       7    0     0               7         13

  08:00 AM       0     0      0      0           0        0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      1            1       0       0      0      0           0           1
  08:15 AM       0     0      0      8           8        0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      10      0      0          10          18                                               Peak Hour Data
  08:30 AM       0     0      0      1           1        0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       1      22      0      0          23          24




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   47


                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Left
  08:45 AM       0     0      0      1           1        0      0      0      6            6       0      0      0      0            0       3      11      0      0          14          21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Out
      Total      0     0      0     10          10        0      0      0      6            6       0      0      0      1            1       4      43      0      0          47          64




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        43
                                                                                                                                                                                                    COVINGTON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         COVINGTON RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Peds Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                            47
 Grand Total     0      1     0      10         11        0       1     0       6           7       0      0      0       5           5       4       50     0      0          54          77




                                                                                                                                                                                                          In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              In
  Apprch %       0    9.1     0    90.9                   0    14.3     0    85.7                   0      0      0    100                  7.4     92.6     0      0                                                                     Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6
    Total %      0    1.3     0      13      14.3         0     1.3     0     7.8        9.1        0      0      0     6.5        6.5      5.2     64.9     0      0       70.1                                                          Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       49
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6
                       HAYMAN PL                               COVINGTON RD                                HAYMAN PL                                COVINGTON RD
                       Southbound                                Westbound                                 Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
  08:00 AM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0              0      0           0       0       0      0      1           1        0       0      0      0          0           1
  08:15 AM        0       0     0      8        8    0    0              0      0           0       0       0      0      0           0        0      10      0      0         10          18
  08:30 AM        0       0     0      1        1    0    0              0      0           0       0       0      0      0           0        1      22      0      0         23          24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Left           Thru Right Peds
  08:45 AM        0       0     0      1        1    0    0              0      6           6       0       0      0      0           0        3      11      0      0         14          21                                                        0           0    0     1
 Total Volume     0       0     0     10       10    0    0              0      6           6       0       0      0      1           1        4      43      0      0         47          64
 % App. Total     0       0     0 100                0    0              0    100                   0       0      0    100                  8.5    91.5      0      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4          1      5
         PHF .000 .000 .000 .313             .313 .000 .000           .000   .250      .250      .000    .000   .000   .250      .250      .333     .489   .000   .000      .511        .667
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Out              In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HAYMAN PL
                                                                        Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                               Traffic Data Service
                                                                                Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                       Campbell, CA
                                                                               (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                     (408) 377-2988
                                                                               tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name        : 12PM FINAL                                                                  tdsbay@cs.com                                      File Name              : 12PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code        : 00000012                                                                                                                       Site Code              : 00000012
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date       : 5/19/2010                                                                                                                      Start Date             : 5/19/2010
                                                                                                                                                   Page No          :1                                                                                                                               Page No                :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HAYMAN PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Out              In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1          2      3
                                                                         Groups Printed- Vehicles
                       HAYMAN PL                               COVINGTON RD                      HAYMAN PL                                          COVINGTON RD                                                                                  0     0                  0       2
                        Southbound                                Westbound                       Northbound                                          Eastbound                                                                               Right Thru            Left       Peds
 Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                 App. Total   Right    Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
  04:00 PM       0      0    0     0              0       0       3    0    0         3     0     0    0     1                        1       0       0    0     0               0          4
  04:15 PM       0      0    0     0              0       0       2    0    0         2     0     1    0     0                        1       0       0    0     0               0          3
  04:30 PM       0      0    0     2              2       0       3    0    0         3     0     0    0     1                        1       0       1    0     0               1          7
  04:45 PM       0      0    0     0              0       0       1    0    0         1     0     0    0     0                        0       0       1    0     0               1          2
      Total      0      0    0     2              2       0       9    0    0         9     0     1    0     2                        3       0       2    0     0               2         16

  05:00 PM       0     0      0      0            0       0      1      0      0            1       0      0      0      0            0       0       1      0      0            1           2
  05:15 PM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      1      0            1       0       0      0      0            0           1                                               Peak Hour Data
  05:30 PM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      1            1       0       0      0      0            0           1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11


                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Left
  05:45 PM       0     0      0      0            0       0      1      0      0            1       0      0      0      1            1       0       0      0      0            0           2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Out
      Total      0     0      0      0            0       0      2      0      0            2       0      0      1      2            3       0       1      0      0            1           6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    COVINGTON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         COVINGTON RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Peds Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                             2
 Grand Total     0     0      0       2           2       0     11      0      0          11        0       1      1      4           6       0        3     0      0            3         22




                                                                                                                                                                                                          In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              In
  Apprch %       0     0      0    100                    0    100      0      0                    0    16.7   16.7   66.7                   0      100     0      0                                                                      Peak Hour Begins at 04:00 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9
    Total %      0     0      0     9.1        9.1        0     50      0      0          50        0     4.5    4.5   18.2      27.3         0     13.6     0      0       13.6                                                           Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                       9
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                       HAYMAN PL                               COVINGTON RD                                HAYMAN PL                                COVINGTON RD
                       Southbound                                Westbound                                 Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
  04:00 PM        0       0     0      0        0    0    3              0      0           3       0       0      0      1           1       0        0      0      0           0          4
  04:15 PM        0       0     0      0        0    0    2              0      0           2       0       1      0      0           1       0        0      0      0           0          3
  04:30 PM        0       0     0      2        2    0    3              0      0           3       0       0      0      1           1       0        1      0      0           1          7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Left           Thru Right Peds
  04:45 PM        0       0     0      0        0    0    1              0      0           1       0       0      0      0           0       0        1      0      0           1          2                                                         0           1    0     2
 Total Volume     0       0     0      2        2    0    9              0      0           9       0       1      0      2           3       0        2      0      0           2         16
 % App. Total     0       0     0 100                0 100               0      0                   0    33.3      0   66.7                   0      100      0      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0          3      3
         PHF .000 .000 .000 .250             .250 .000 .750           .000   .000      .750      .000    .250   .000   .500      .750      .000     .500   .000   .000      .500        .571
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Out              In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HAYMAN PL
                                                                        Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                      Traffic Data Service
                                                                                Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                              Campbell, CA
                                                                               (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                            (408) 377-2988
                                                                               tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name        : 13AM FINAL                                                         tdsbay@cs.com                                      File Name    : 13AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code        : 00000013                                                                                                              Site Code    : 00000013
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date       : 5/19/2010                                                                                                             Start Date   : 5/19/2010
                                                                                                                                                   Page No          :1                                                                                                                      Page No      :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WALKWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Out             In   Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          19               8    27
                                                                         Groups Printed- Vehicles
                        WALKWAY                                    MUIR WY                        WALKWAY                                              MUIR WY                                                                           0     8                  0       0
                        Southbound                                Westbound                       Northbound                                          Eastbound                                                                      Right Thru            Left       Peds
 Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                 App. Total   Right    Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
  07:00 AM       0      0    0     0              0       0       1    0    0         1     0     0    0     0                        0       0       0    0     1               1          2
  07:15 AM       0      0    0     0              0       0       0    0    0         0     0     0    0     0                        0       0       0    0     0               0          0
  07:30 AM       0      3    0     0              3       0       0    0    0         0     0     5    0     0                        5       0       0    0     2               2         10
  07:45 AM       0      1    0     0              1       0       0    0    0         0     0     2    0     0                        2       0       0    0     1               1          4
      Total      0      4    0     0              4       0       1    0    0         1     0     7    0     0                        7       0       0    0     4               4         16

  08:00 AM       0     4      0      0            4       0      0      0      0           0        0      2      0      0           2        0       0      0      0            0          6
  08:15 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0      2           2        0      0      0      0           0        0       0      0      0            0          2                                       Peak Hour Data
  08:30 AM       0     4      0      0            4       0      0      0      2           2        0      2      0      0           2        0       0      0      0            0          8




                                                                                                                                                                                                         3


                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                               Left
  08:45 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0     15          15        0     15      0      0          15        0       0      0      3            3         33




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Out
      Total      0     8      0      0            8       0      0      0     19          19        0     19      0      0          19        0       0      0      3            3         49




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MUIR WY
                                                                                                                                                                                                   MUIR WY

                                                                                                                                                                                                          3
 Grand Total     0     12     0      0          12        0       1     0      19         20        0     26      0      0          26        0       0      0       7           7         65




                                                                                                                                                                                                       In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 In
  Apprch %       0    100     0      0                    0       5     0      95                   0    100      0      0                    0       0      0    100                                                             Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Left Peds
    Total %      0   18.5     0      0       18.5         0     1.5     0    29.2      30.8         0     40      0      0          40        0       0      0    10.8      10.8                                                  Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     19
                       WALKWAY                                    MUIR WY                                  WALKWAY                                      MUIR WY
                       Southbound                                Westbound                                 Northbound                                  Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
  08:00 AM        0       4     0      0        4    0    0              0      0          0        0       2      0      0          2        0        0      0      0           0          6
  08:15 AM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0              0      2          2        0       0      0      0          0        0        0      0      0           0          2
  08:30 AM        0       4     0      0        4    0    0              0      2          2        0       2      0      0          2        0        0      0      0           0          8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Left           Thru Right Peds
  08:45 AM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0              0     15         15        0      15      0      0         15        0        0      0      3           3         33                                                0          19    0     0
 Total Volume     0       8     0      0        8    0    0              0     19         19        0      19      0      0         19        0        0      0      3           3         49
 % App. Total     0 100         0      0             0    0              0    100                   0     100      0      0                   0        0      0    100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8         19    27
         PHF .000 .500 .000 .000             .500 .000 .000           .000   .317      .317      .000    .317   .000   .000      .317      .000     .000   .000   .250      .250        .371
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Out             In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WALKWAY
                                                                        Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                      Traffic Data Service
                                                                                Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                              Campbell, CA
                                                                               (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                            (408) 377-2988
                                                                               tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name        : 13PM FINAL                                                         tdsbay@cs.com                                      File Name    : 13PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code        : 00000013                                                                                                              Site Code    : 00000013
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date       : 5/19/2010                                                                                                             Start Date   : 5/19/2010
                                                                                                                                                   Page No          :1                                                                                                                      Page No      :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WALKWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Out             In   Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2         6     8
                                                                         Groups Printed- Vehicles
                        WALKWAY                                    MUIR WY                        WALKWAY                                              MUIR WY                                                                           0     6                  0       0
                        Southbound                                Westbound                       Northbound                                          Eastbound                                                                      Right Thru            Left       Peds
 Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                 App. Total   Right    Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
  04:00 PM       0      2    0     0              2       0       1    0    0         1     0     0    0     0                        0       0       0    0     0               0          3
  04:15 PM       0      2    0     0              2       0       0    0    0         0     0     1    0     0                        1       0       0    0     1               1          4
  04:30 PM       0      1    0     0              1       0       0    0    0         0     0     1    0     0                        1       0       0    0     0               0          2
  04:45 PM       0      1    0     0              1       0       0    0    0         0     0     0    0     0                        0       0       0    0     0               0          1
      Total      0      6    0     0              6       0       1    0    0         1     0     2    0     0                        2       0       0    0     1               1         10

  05:00 PM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0       0      0      0            0           0
  05:15 PM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0       0      0      0            0           0                                      Peak Hour Data
  05:30 PM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      3      0      0            3       0       0      0      1            1           4




                                                                                                                                                                                                         2


                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                               Left
  05:45 PM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      3      0      0            3       0       0      0      0            0           3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Out
      Total      0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      6      0      0            6       0       0      0      1            1           7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MUIR WY
                                                                                                                                                                                                   MUIR WY

                                                                                                                                                                                                          1
 Grand Total     0      6     0      0            6       0       1     0      0            1       0       8     0      0            8       0       0      0       2           2         17




                                                                                                                                                                                                       In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 In
  Apprch %       0    100     0      0                    0    100      0      0                    0     100     0      0                    0       0      0    100                                                             Peak Hour Begins at 04:00 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
    Total %      0   35.3     0      0       35.3         0     5.9     0      0         5.9        0    47.1     0      0       47.1         0       0      0    11.8      11.8                                                  Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                           1
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                       WALKWAY                                    MUIR WY                                  WALKWAY                                      MUIR WY
                       Southbound                                Westbound                                 Northbound                                  Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
  04:00 PM        0       2     0      0        2    0    1              0      0           1       0       0      0      0           0       0        0      0      0           0          3
  04:15 PM        0       2     0      0        2    0    0              0      0           0       0       1      0      0           1       0        0      0      1           1          4
  04:30 PM        0       1     0      0        1    0    0              0      0           0       0       1      0      0           1       0        0      0      0           0          2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Left           Thru Right Peds
  04:45 PM        0       1     0      0        1    0    0              0      0           0       0       0      0      0           0       0        0      0      0           0          1                                                0           2    0     0
 Total Volume     0       6     0      0        6    0    1              0      0           1       0       2      0      0           2       0        0      0      1           1         10
 % App. Total     0 100         0      0             0 100               0      0                   0     100      0      0                   0        0      0    100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6         2     8
         PHF .000 .750 .000 .000             .750 .000 .250           .000   .000      .250      .000    .500   .000   .000      .500      .000     .000   .000   .250      .250        .625
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Out             In   Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WALKWAY
                                                                         Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                                                                                 Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                         Campbell, CA
                                                                                (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                       (408) 377-2988
                                                                                tdsbay@cs.com                                                        File Name        : 14AM FINAL                                                                   tdsbay@cs.com                                  File Name            : 14AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                     Site Code        : 00000014                                                                                                                    Site Code            : 00000014
                                                                                                                                                     Start Date       : 5/19/2010                                                                                                                   Start Date           : 5/19/2010
                                                                                                                                                     Page No          :1                                                                                                                            Page No              :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CROSSING BRIDGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Out     In     Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      37       14     51
                                                                Groups Printed- Vehicles
                     CROSSING BRIDGE                   ALTAMEAD DR                   CROSSING BRIDGE                   ALTAMEAD DR                                                                                                                   0    14              0       0
                         Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound                                                                                                               Right Thru        Left       Peds
 Start Time Right     Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                                       App. Total   Int. Total
  07:00 AM       0       1    0     0        1     0     0    0    0         0     0     0    0     0        0     0     0    0    0                                               0          1
  07:15 AM       0       2    0     0        2     0     0    0    2         2     0     3    0     0        3     0     0    0    0                                               0          7
  07:30 AM       0       1    0     0        1     0     0    0    1         1     0     5    0     0        5     0     0    0    2                                               2          9
  07:45 AM       0       1    0     0        1     0     0    0    0         0     0     3    0     0        3     0     0    0    1                                               1          5
      Total      0       5    0     0        5     0     0    0    3         3     0    11    0     0      11      0     0    0    3                                               3         22

  08:00 AM       0       1     0      0           1        0      0      0      0           0        0       0      0      0           0        0       0      0      0           0           1
  08:15 AM       0       2     0      0           2        0      0      0      0           0        0       0      0      0           0        0       0      0      0           0           2                                                 Peak Hour Data
  08:30 AM       0      11     0      0          11        0      0      0     12          12        0      13      0      0          13        0       0      0      3           3          39




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      19


                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Left
  08:45 AM       0       0     0      0           0        0      0      0      4           4        0      24      0      0          24        0       0      0     16          16          44




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Out
      Total      0      14     0      0          14        0      0      0     16          16        0      37      0      0          37        0       0      0     19          19          86




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ALTAMEAD DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ALTAMEAD DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Peds Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                              19
 Grand Total     0      19     0      0          19        0      0      0      19         19        0       48     0      0          48        0       0      0     22          22        108




                                                                                                                                                                                                            In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           In
  Apprch %       0     100     0      0                    0      0      0     100                   0      100     0      0                    0       0      0    100                                                                       Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Left Peds
    Total %      0    17.6     0      0       17.6         0      0      0    17.6      17.6         0     44.4     0      0       44.4         0       0      0    20.4      20.4                                                            Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             19




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             16
                     CROSSING BRIDGE                            ALTAMEAD DR                               CROSSING BRIDGE                             ALTAMEAD DR
                        Southbound                               Westbound                                   Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right     Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
  08:00 AM        0       1     0      0        1    0    0               0      0          0        0        0      0      0          0        0        0      0      0          0           1
  08:15 AM        0       2     0      0        2    0    0               0      0          0        0        0      0      0          0        0        0      0      0          0           2
  08:30 AM        0     11      0      0       11    0    0               0     12         12        0       13      0      0         13        0        0      0      3          3          39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Left       Thru Right Peds
  08:45 AM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0               0      4          4        0       24      0      0         24        0        0      0     16         16          44                                                          0      37    0     0
 Total Volume     0     14      0      0       14    0    0               0     16         16        0       37      0      0         37        0        0      0     19         19          86
 % App. Total     0 100         0      0             0    0               0    100                   0      100      0      0                   0        0      0    100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      14       37     51
         PHF .000 .318 .000 .000             .318 .000 .000            .000   .333      .333      .000     .385   .000   .000      .385      .000     .000   .000   .297      .297        .489
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Out     In     Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CROSSING BRIDGE
                                                                         Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                                                                                 Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                         Campbell, CA
                                                                                (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                       (408) 377-2988
                                                                                tdsbay@cs.com                                                        File Name        : 14PM FINAL                                                                   tdsbay@cs.com                                  File Name            : 14PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                     Site Code        : 00000014                                                                                                                    Site Code            : 00000014
                                                                                                                                                     Start Date       : 5/19/2010                                                                                                                   Start Date           : 5/19/2010
                                                                                                                                                     Page No          :1                                                                                                                            Page No              :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CROSSING BRIDGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Out     In     Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0      2       2
                                                                Groups Printed- Vehicles
                     CROSSING BRIDGE                   ALTAMEAD DR                   CROSSING BRIDGE                   ALTAMEAD DR                                                                                                                   0     2              0       0
                         Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound                                                                                                               Right Thru        Left       Peds
 Start Time Right     Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                                       App. Total   Int. Total
  04:00 PM       0       0    0     0        0     0     0    0     2        2     0     0    0     0        0     0     0    0    1                                               1          3
  04:15 PM       0       0    0     0        0     0     0    0     6        6     0     0    0     0        0     0     0    0    4                                               4         10
  04:30 PM       0       1    0     0        1     0     0    0     0        0     0     0    0     0        0     0     0    0    1                                               1          2
  04:45 PM       0       1    0     0        1     0     0    0     3        3     0     0    0     0        0     0     0    0    1                                               1          5
      Total      0       2    0     0        2     0     0    0    11      11      0     0    0     0        0     0     0    0    7                                               7         20

  05:00 PM       0       0     0      0            0       0      0      0      2           2        0       0      0      0            0       0       0      0      3            3          5
  05:15 PM       0       1     0      0            1       0      0      0      2           2        0       0      0      0            0       0       0      0      1            1          4                                                 Peak Hour Data
  05:30 PM       0       0     0      0            0       0      0      0      6           6        0       1      0      0            1       0       0      0      0            0          7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       9


                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Left
  05:45 PM       0       0     0      0            0       0      0      0      0           0        0       0      0      0            0       0       0      0      0            0          0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Out
      Total      0       1     0      0            1       0      0      0     10          10        0       1      0      0            1       0       0      0      4            4         16




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ALTAMEAD DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ALTAMEAD DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Peds Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                               9
 Grand Total     0       3     0      0            3       0      0      0      21         21        0       1      0      0            1       0       0      0     11          11          36




                                                                                                                                                                                                            In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           In
  Apprch %       0    100      0      0                    0      0      0     100                   0     100      0      0                    0       0      0    100                                                                       Peak Hour Begins at 04:15 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Left Peds
    Total %      0     8.3     0      0         8.3        0      0      0    58.3      58.3         0     2.8      0      0         2.8        0       0      0    30.6      30.6                                                            Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             11
                     CROSSING BRIDGE                            ALTAMEAD DR                               CROSSING BRIDGE                             ALTAMEAD DR
                        Southbound                               Westbound                                   Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right     Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:15 PM
  04:15 PM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0               0      6          6        0        0      0      0           0       0        0      0      4           4         10
  04:30 PM        0       1     0      0        1    0    0               0      0          0        0        0      0      0           0       0        0      0      1           1          2
  04:45 PM        0       1     0      0        1    0    0               0      3          3        0        0      0      0           0       0        0      0      1           1          5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Left       Thru Right Peds
  05:00 PM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0               0      2          2        0        0      0      0           0       0        0      0      3           3          5                                                          0       0    0     0
 Total Volume     0       2     0      0        2    0    0               0     11         11        0        0      0      0           0       0        0      0      9           9         22
 % App. Total     0 100         0      0             0    0               0    100                   0        0      0      0                   0        0      0    100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2      0       2
         PHF .000 .500 .000 .000             .500 .000 .000            .000   .458      .458      .000     .000   .000   .000      .000      .000     .000   .000   .563      .563        .550
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Out     In     Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CROSSING BRIDGE
                                                                        Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                     Traffic Data Service
                                                                                  Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                           Campbell, CA
                                                                                 (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                         (408) 377-2988
                                                                                 tdsbay@cs.com                                                      File Name        : 15AM FINAL                                                       tdsbay@cs.com                                      File Name    : 15AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                    Site Code        : 00000015                                                                                                            Site Code    : 00000015
                                                                                                                                                    Start Date       : 5/19/2010                                                                                                           Start Date   : 5/19/2010
                                                                                                                                                    Page No          :1                                                                                                                    Page No      :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                THATCHER DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Out           In     Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2       3       5
                                                                             Groups Printed- Vehicles
                      THATCHER DR                                                                    THATCHER DR                                                                                                                        0     3                  0       0
                        Southbound                                Westbound                            Northbound                                      Eastbound                                                                    Right Thru            Left       Peds
 Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds      App. Total Right Thru Left Peds             App. Total   Right    Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
  07:00 AM       0      0    0     0              0       0       0    0    1              1     0     0    0     0                    0       0       0    0     1               1          2
  07:15 AM       0      0    0     0              0       0       0    0    4              4     0     1    0     0                    1       0       0    0     0               0          5
  07:30 AM       0      1    0     0              1       0       0    0    1              1     0     1    0     0                    1       0       0    0     1               1          4
  07:45 AM       0      2    0     0              2       0       0    0    0              0     0     0    0     0                    0       0       0    0     2               2          4
      Total      0      3    0     0              3       0       0    0    6              6     0     2    0     0                    2       0       0    0     4               4         15

  08:00 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0        5           5       0      0      0      0            0       0       0      0      4            4          9
  08:15 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0        0           0       0      1      0      0            1       0       0      0      2            2          3                                     Peak Hour Data
  08:30 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0        0           0       0      3      0      0            3       0       0      0      1            1          4




                                                                                                                                                                                                        7


                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                              Left
  08:45 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0        2           2       0      0      0      0            0       0       0      0      1            1          3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Out
      Total      0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0        7           7       0      4      0      0            4       0       0      0      8            8         19




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Peds Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                          7
 Grand Total     0      3     0      0            3       0      0      0       13         13        0       6     0      0            6       0       0      0     12          12          34




                                                                                                                                                                                                    In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             In
  Apprch %       0   100      0      0                    0      0      0      100                   0     100     0      0                    0       0      0    100                                                           Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Left Peds
    Total %      0    8.8     0      0         8.8        0      0      0     38.2      38.2         0    17.6     0      0       17.6         0       0      0    35.3      35.3                                                Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10
                     THATCHER DR                                                                          THATCHER DR
                      Southbound                                 Westbound                                 Northbound                                   Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left    Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
  07:15 AM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0              0       4          4        0       1      0      0           1       0        0      0      0           0          5
  07:30 AM        0       1     0      0        1    0    0              0       1          1        0       1      0      0           1       0        0      0      1           1          4
  07:45 AM        0       2     0      0        2    0    0              0       0          0        0       0      0      0           0       0        0      0      2           2          4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Left           Thru Right Peds
  08:00 AM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0              0       5          5        0       0      0      0           0       0        0      0      4           4          9                                              0           2    0     0
 Total Volume     0       3     0      0        3    0    0              0      10         10        0       2      0      0           2       0        0      0      7           7         22
 % App. Total     0 100         0      0             0    0              0     100                   0     100      0      0                   0        0      0    100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3       2       5
         PHF .000 .375 .000 .000             .375 .000 .000           .000    .500      .500      .000    .500   .000   .000      .500      .000     .000   .000   .438      .438        .611
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Out           In     Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                THATCHER DR
                                                                        Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                     Traffic Data Service
                                                                                  Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                           Campbell, CA
                                                                                 (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                         (408) 377-2988
                                                                                 tdsbay@cs.com                                                      File Name        : 15PM FINAL                                                       tdsbay@cs.com                                      File Name    : 15PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                    Site Code        : 00000015                                                                                                            Site Code    : 00000015
                                                                                                                                                    Start Date       : 5/19/2010                                                                                                           Start Date   : 5/19/2010
                                                                                                                                                    Page No          :1                                                                                                                    Page No      :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                THATCHER DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Out           In     Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0       6       6
                                                                             Groups Printed- Vehicles
                      THATCHER DR                                                                    THATCHER DR                                                                                                                        0     6                  0       0
                        Southbound                                Westbound                            Northbound                                      Eastbound                                                                    Right Thru            Left       Peds
 Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds      App. Total Right Thru Left Peds             App. Total   Right    Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
  04:00 PM       0      1    0     0              1       0       0    0    5              5     0     0    0     0                    0       0       0    0     2               2          8
  04:15 PM       0      0    0     0              0       0       0    0    3              3     0     0    0     0                    0       0       0    0     0               0          3
  04:30 PM       0      1    0     0              1       0       0    0    1              1     0     1    0     0                    1       0       0    0     2               2          5
  04:45 PM       0      2    0     0              2       0       0    0    0              0     0     0    0     0                    0       0       0    0     1               1          3
      Total      0      4    0     0              4       0       0    0    9              9     0     1    0     0                    1       0       0    0     5               5         19

  05:00 PM       0     4      0      0            4       0      0      0       17         17        0      0      0      0            0       0       0      0      3           3          24
  05:15 PM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0        0          0        0      0      0      0            0       0       0      0      8           8           8                                     Peak Hour Data
  05:30 PM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0        1          1        0      0      0      0            0       0       0      0      7           7           8




                                                                                                                                                                                                       19


                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                              Left
  05:45 PM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0        0          0        0      0      0      0            0       0       0      0      0           0           0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Out
      Total      0     4      0      0            4       0      0      0       18         18        0      0      0      0            0       0       0      0     18          18          40




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Peds Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                      19
 Grand Total     0      8     0      0            8       0      0      0       27         27        0      1      0      0            1       0       0      0     23          23          59




                                                                                                                                                                                                    In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             In
  Apprch %       0    100     0      0                    0      0      0      100                   0    100      0      0                    0       0      0    100                                                           Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Left Peds
    Total %      0   13.6     0      0       13.6         0      0      0     45.8      45.8         0    1.7      0      0         1.7        0       0      0     39          39                                               Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                19




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    18
                     THATCHER DR                                                                          THATCHER DR
                      Southbound                                 Westbound                                 Northbound                                   Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left    Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
  04:45 PM        0       2     0      0        2    0    0              0       0          0        0       0      0      0           0       0        0      0      1          1           3
  05:00 PM        0       4     0      0        4    0    0              0      17         17        0       0      0      0           0       0        0      0      3          3          24
  05:15 PM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0              0       0          0        0       0      0      0           0       0        0      0      8          8           8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Left           Thru Right Peds
  05:30 PM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0              0       1          1        0       0      0      0           0       0        0      0      7          7           8                                              0           0    0     0
 Total Volume     0       6     0      0        6    0    0              0      18         18        0       0      0      0           0       0        0      0     19         19          43
 % App. Total     0 100         0      0             0    0              0     100                   0       0      0      0                   0        0      0    100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6       0       6
         PHF .000 .375 .000 .000             .375 .000 .000           .000    .265      .265      .000    .000   .000   .000      .000      .000     .000   .000   .594      .594        .448
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Out           In     Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                THATCHER DR
                                                                         Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                              Traffic Data Service
                                                                                 Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                      Campbell, CA
                                                                                (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                    (408) 377-2988
                                                                                tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name        : 16AM FINAL                                                                 tdsbay@cs.com                                        File Name              : 16AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                    Site Code        : 00000016                                                                                                                        Site Code              : 00000016
                                                                                                                                                    Start Date       : 5/19/2010                                                                                                                       Start Date             : 5/19/2010
                                                                                                                                                    Page No          :1                                                                                                                                Page No                :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CARMEL TERRACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Out    In     Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0     16     16
                                                                Groups Printed- Vehicles
                     CARMEL TERRACE                    CONCORD AVE                                                                                   CONCORD AVE                                                                                  0     8                     0       8
                         Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                                                    Eastbound                                                                              Right Thru               Left       Peds
 Start Time Right     Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                           App. Total   Right    Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
  07:00 AM       0       0    0     2        2     0     1    0    0         1     0     0    0     0                                  0       0      2     0     1               3          6
  07:15 AM       0       0    0     0        0     0     0    0    0         0     0     1    0     0                                  1       0      0     0     0               0          1
  07:30 AM       0       0    0     0        0     0     2    0    0         2     0     2    0     0                                  2       0      0     0     1               1          5
  07:45 AM       0       0    0     2        2     0     0    0    0         0     0     3    0     0                                  3       0      3     0     2               5         10
      Total      0       0    0     4        4     0     3    0    0         3     0     6    0     0                                  6       0      5     0     4               9         22

  08:00 AM       0       8     0      1           9        0      0      0      1           1        0      0      0      0            0       0      24      0      0          24         34
  08:15 AM       0       0     0      2           2        0      3      0      0           3        0      0      0      0            0       0       6      0      5          11         16                                                Peak Hour Data
  08:30 AM       0       0     0      3           3        0      9      0      1          10        0      0      0      0            0       0      11      0     20          31         44




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  107


                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Left
  08:45 AM       0       0     0      2           2        0      1      0      0           1        0      0      0      0            0       0       0      0     28          28         31




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Out
      Total      0       8     0      8          16        0     13      0      2          15        0      0      0      0            0       0      41      0     53          94        125




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           41

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONCORD AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONCORD AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Peds Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                            94
 Grand Total     0       8     0      12         20        0      16     0       2         18        0      6      0      0            6       0       46     0     57        103         147




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  13
                                                                                                                                                                                                          In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                In
  Apprch %       0      40     0      60                   0    88.9     0    11.1                   0    100      0      0                    0     44.7     0    55.3                                                                    Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Left Peds
    Total %      0     5.4     0     8.2      13.6         0    10.9     0     1.4      12.2         0    4.1      0      0         4.1        0     31.3     0    38.8      70.1                                                          Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      13
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           53




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         56
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2
                     CARMEL TERRACE                             CONCORD AVE                                                                          CONCORD AVE
                        Southbound                               Westbound                                  Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right     Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
  08:00 AM        0       8     0      1        9    0    0               0      1          1        0       0      0      0           0       0       24      0      0         24         34
  08:15 AM        0       0     0      2        2    0    3               0      0          3        0       0      0      0           0       0        6      0      5         11         16
  08:30 AM        0       0     0      3        3    0    9               0      1         10        0       0      0      0           0       0       11      0     20         31         44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Left           Thru Right Peds
  08:45 AM        0       0     0      2        2    0    1               0      0          1        0       0      0      0           0       0        0      0     28         28         31                                                         0           0    0     0
 Total Volume     0       8     0      8       16    0   13               0      2         15        0       0      0      0           0       0       41      0     53         94        125
 % App. Total     0     50      0     50             0 86.7               0   13.3                   0       0      0      0                   0     43.6      0   56.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8            0              8
         PHF .000 .250 .000 .667             .444 .000 .361            .000   .500      .375      .000    .000   .000   .000      .000      .000     .427   .000   .473      .758        .710
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Out              In              Total
                                                                         Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                               Traffic Data Service
                                                                                 Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                       Campbell, CA
                                                                                (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                     (408) 377-2988
                                                                                tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name        : 16PM FINAL                                                                  tdsbay@cs.com                                         File Name              : 16PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                    Site Code        : 00000016                                                                                                                          Site Code              : 00000016
                                                                                                                                                    Start Date       : 5/19/2010                                                                                                                         Start Date             : 5/19/2010
                                                                                                                                                    Page No          :1                                                                                                                                  Page No                :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CARMEL TERRACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Out    In     Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0     2       2
                                                                Groups Printed- Vehicles
                     CARMEL TERRACE                    CONCORD AVE                                                                                   CONCORD AVE                                                                                   0     0                     0       2
                         Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                                                    Eastbound                                                                               Right Thru               Left       Peds
 Start Time Right     Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                           App. Total   Right    Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
  04:00 PM       0       0    0     1        1     0     0    0    0         0     0     0    0     0                                  0       0      0     0     1               1          2
  04:15 PM       0       0    0     1        1     0     0    0    0         0     0     0    0     0                                  0       0      3     0     0               3          4
  04:30 PM       0       0    0     1        1     0     2    0    0         2     0     0    0     0                                  0       0      0     0     1               1          4
  04:45 PM       0       0    0     0        0     0     0    0    0         0     0     0    0     0                                  0       0      2     0     2               4          4
      Total      0       0    0     3        3     0     2    0    0         2     0     0    0     0                                  0       0      5     0     4               9         14

  05:00 PM       0       0     0      0            0       0      1      0      0            1       0      0      0      0            0       0       2      0      5           7           8
  05:15 PM       0       0     0      1            1       0      2      0      0            2       0      0      0      0            0       0       0      0      1           1           4                                                Peak Hour Data
  05:30 PM       0       0     0      0            0       0      1      0      0            1       0      0      0      0            0       0       0      0      2           2           3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    18


                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Left
  05:45 PM       0       0     0      1            1       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0       0      0      1           1           2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Out
      Total      0       0     0      2            2       0      4      0      0            4       0      0      0      0            0       0       2      0      9          11          17




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CONCORD AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONCORD AVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Peds Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                            15
 Grand Total     0       0     0       5           5       0       6     0      0            6       0      0      0      0            0       0        7     0     13          20          31




                                                                                                                                                                                                          In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  In
  Apprch %       0       0     0     100                   0     100     0      0                    0      0      0      0                    0       35     0     65                                                                      Peak Hour Begins at 04:15 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3
    Total %      0       0     0    16.1      16.1         0    19.4     0      0       19.4         0      0      0      0            0       0     22.6     0    41.9      64.5                                                           Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                     CARMEL TERRACE                             CONCORD AVE                                                                          CONCORD AVE
                        Southbound                               Westbound                                  Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right     Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:15 PM
  04:15 PM        0       0     0      1        1    0    0               0      0           0       0       0      0      0           0       0        3      0      0          3           4
  04:30 PM        0       0     0      1        1    0    2               0      0           2       0       0      0      0           0       0        0      0      1          1           4
  04:45 PM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0               0      0           0       0       0      0      0           0       0        2      0      2          4           4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Left           Thru Right Peds
  05:00 PM        0       0     0      0        0    0    1               0      0           1       0       0      0      0           0       0        2      0      5          7           8                                                         0           0    0     0
 Total Volume     0       0     0      2        2    0    3               0      0           3       0       0      0      0           0       0        7      0      8         15          20
 % App. Total     0       0     0 100                0 100                0      0                   0       0      0      0                   0     46.7      0   53.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0            0              0
         PHF .000 .000 .000 .500             .500 .000 .375            .000   .000      .375      .000    .000   .000   .000      .000      .000     .583   .000   .400      .536        .625
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Out              In              Total
                                                                           Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                                Traffic Data Service
                                                                                    Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                       Campbell, CA
                                                                                   (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                     (408) 377-2988
                                                                                   tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name            : 1AM FINAL                                                               tdsbay@cs.com                         File Name              : 1AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                       Site Code            : 00000001                                                                                                      Site Code              : 00000001
                                                                                                                                                       Start Date           : 5/19/2010                                                                                                     Start Date             : 5/19/2010
                                                                                                                                                       Page No              :1                                                                                                              Page No                :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      414      292    706
                                                                Groups Printed- Vehicles
                      MIRAMONTE AVE                   COVINGTON RD                    MIRAMONTE AVE                   COVINGTON RD                                                                                                                   23   174        94    1
                         Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound                                                                                                                Right Thru      Left Peds
 Start Time Right     Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                                         App. Total   Int. Total
  07:00 AM       4      27    12    0      43     15    17    1    2       35      7    71    1     0      79      2    26   13    0                                              41        198
  07:15 AM      13      22     5    0      40     24    15    1    0       40     17 119      1     0    137       1    21   49    1                                              72        289
  07:30 AM       7      47    17    0      71     26    16    5    1       48     11 105      0     1    117       1    34   56    0                                              91        327
  07:45 AM       7      54    16    0      77      7    38    8    2       55     13    62    0     0      75      3    36   16    1                                              56        263
      Total     31     150    50    0    231      72    86   15    5     178      48 357      2     1    408       7 117 134       2                                             260       1077

  08:00 AM       3     38       9      0         50         8     26       2       0         36        17     65      2      2         86         3     24     24       4         55        227
  08:15 AM       8     51      21      1         81        10     35       5       0         50        16     61      6      5         88         6     32     28       2         68        287                                                  Peak Hour Data
  08:30 AM       5     43      36      0         84         9     21       6       0         36        20     82      3     33        138         8     51     21      12         92        350




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      454


                                                                                                                                                                                                                               92




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Left
  08:45 AM       7     42      28      0         77        20     41      10       3         74        22     67      2     30        121         4     52     19       5         80        352




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  47


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              328
      Total     23    174      94      1        292        47    123      23       3        196        75    275     13     70        433        21    159     92      23        295       1216




                                                                                                                                                                                                         COVINGTON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COVINGTON RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         159
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      123
                                                                                                                                                                                                               295
 Grand Total     54   324     144       1       523       119     209     38       8        374       123     632     15     71       841        28     276   226      25        555       2293




                                                                                                                                                                                                               In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     196
  Apprch %     10.3    62    27.5     0.2                31.8    55.9    10.2    2.1                 14.6    75.1    1.8    8.4                   5    49.7   40.7    4.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Left Peds
    Total %     2.4   14.1     6.3      0      22.8        5.2     9.1    1.7    0.3       16.3        5.4   27.6    0.7    3.1      36.7       1.2      12    9.9    1.1       24.2                                                           Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 23
                                                                                                                                                                                                        159
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               23




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             524
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3
                      MIRAMONTE AVE                              COVINGTON RD                                MIRAMONTE AVE                             COVINGTON RD
                        Southbound                                 Westbound                                   Northbound                                Eastbound
 Start Time Right     Thru    Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
  08:00 AM        3     38      9      0       50    8   26                 2       0        36        17      65      2      2        86          3     24     24       4        55        227
  08:15 AM        8     51     21      1       81   10   35                 5       0        50        16      61      6      5        88          6     32     28       2        68        287
  08:30 AM        5     43     36      0       84    9   21                 6       0        36        20      82      3     33       138          8     51     21      12        92        350
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Left  Thru Right Peds
  08:45 AM        7     42     28      0       77   20   41                10       3        74        22      67      2     30       121          4     52     19       5        80        352                                                       13   275   75    70
 Total Volume   23 174         94      1      292   47 123                 23       3       196        75     275     13     70       433         21    159     92      23       295       1216
 % App. Total  7.9 59.6 32.2         0.3            24 62.8              11.7     1.5                17.3    63.5      3   16.2                  7.1   53.9   31.2     7.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      218      433    651
         PHF .719 .853 .653 .250             .869 .588 .750              .575   .250       .662      .852    .838   .542   .530      .784      .656    .764   .821   .479       .802        .864
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                        Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                                      Traffic Data Service
                                                                                Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                               Campbell, CA
                                                                               (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                             (408) 377-2988
                                                                               tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name        : 1AM FINAL                                                                           tdsbay@cs.com                                 File Name              : 1AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code        : 00000001                                                                                                                          Site Code              : 00000001
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date       : 5/19/2010                                                                                                                         Start Date             : 5/19/2010
BIKES                                                                                                                                              Page No          :1                             BIKES                                                                                                Page No                :2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                         Groups Printed- Bikes                                                                                                                                                            Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9       14    23
                  MIRAMONTE AVE                                COVINGTON RD                    MIRAMONTE AVE                   COVINGTON RD
                     Southbound                                   Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right              Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                            App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1    12              1       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Right Thru        Left       Peds
  07:00 AM       0      0     0      0            0       0       0    0    0         0     0     1    0     0        1     0     1    0    0                                   1           2
  07:15 AM       0      1     0      0            1       0       0    0    0         0     0     2    0     0        2     0     2    0    0                                   2           5
  07:30 AM       0      2     0      0            2       0       0    0    0         0     0     0    0     0        0     0     5    0    0                                   5           7
  07:45 AM       1      1     0      0            2       1       1    0    0         2     1     0    0     0        1     0     4    1    0                                   5          10
      Total      1      4     0      0            5       1       1    0    0         2     1     3    0     0        4     0    12    1    0                                  13          24

  08:00 AM       0     2      0      0           2        0      1      0      0            1       0      1      0      0            1       0      3       0      0           3           7
  08:15 AM       0     4      1      0           5        0      0      0      0            0       0      3      0      0            3       0     11       0      0          11          19
  08:30 AM       0     5      0      0           5        0      0      0      0            0       0      3      0      0            3       0     15       0      4          19          27
  08:45 AM       0     1      0      0           1        0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      2       0      0           2           3                                                       Peak Hour Data
      Total      0    12      1      0          13        0      1      0      0            1       0      7      0      0            7       0     31       0      4          35          56




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           41


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           35
                                                                                                                                                                                                            COVINGTON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            COVINGTON RD
 Grand Total     1     16     1      0          18        1       2     0      0            3       1     10      0      0          11        0      43      1       4         48          80                                                                      North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             33
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Peds Right Thru
  Apprch %     5.6   88.9   5.6      0                 33.3    66.7     0      0                  9.1    90.9     0      0                    0    89.6    2.1     8.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    38
    Total %    1.2     20   1.2      0       22.5       1.2     2.5     0      0         3.8      1.2    12.5     0      0       13.8         0    53.8    1.2       5         60




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Bikes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                     MIRAMONTE AVE                             COVINGTON RD                              MIRAMONTE AVE                             COVINGTON RD
                       Southbound                                Westbound                                 Northbound                                Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
  07:45 AM        1       1      0     0        2     1    1             0      0           2       1       0      0      0           1       0       4       1      0          5          10
  08:00 AM        0       2      0     0        2     0    1             0      0           1       0       1      0      0           1       0       3       0      0          3           7
  08:15 AM        0       4      1     0        5     0    0             0      0           0       0       3      0      0           3       0      11       0      0         11          19
  08:30 AM        0       5      0     0        5     0    0             0      0           0       0       3      0      0           3       0      15       0      4         19          27
 Total Volume     1     12       1     0       14     1    2             0      0           3       1       7      0      0           8       0      33       1      4         38          63                                                         Left       Thru Right Peds
 % App. Total  7.1 85.7        7.1     0           33.3 66.7             0      0                12.5    87.5      0      0                   0    86.8     2.6   10.5                                                                                       0       7    1     0
         PHF .250 .600 .250 .000             .700 .250 .500           .000   .000      .375      .250    .583   .000   .000      .667      .000    .550   .250    .250      .500        .583
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12        8     20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                          Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                                                                                   Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                        Campbell, CA
                                                                                  (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                      (408) 377-2988
                                                                                  tdsbay@cs.com                                                        File Name            : 1PM FINAL                                                               tdsbay@cs.com                         File Name              : 1PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                       Site Code            : 00000001                                                                                                      Site Code              : 00000001
                                                                                                                                                       Start Date           : 5/19/2010                                                                                                     Start Date             : 5/19/2010
                                                                                                                                                       Page No              :1                                                                                                              Page No                :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      381      491    872
                                                                Groups Printed- Vehicles
                      MIRAMONTE AVE                   COVINGTON RD                    MIRAMONTE AVE                   COVINGTON RD                                                                                                                   66   345        80    0
                         Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound                                                                                                                Right Thru      Left Peds
 Start Time Right     Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                                         App. Total   Int. Total
  04:00 PM      17      64    18    0      99     12    28    6    0       46      8    67     6    0      81      6    27   12    0                                              45        271
  04:15 PM      14      69    16    0      99     11    37   10    0       58      7    75     4    0      86      5    27   12    1                                              45        288
  04:30 PM      22      93    17    0    132      12    23   10    1       46     10    60     5    0      75     12    33   10    0                                              55        308
  04:45 PM      19      90    20    0    129      13    27   11    2       53      9    65     5    0      79     12    27   12    0                                              51        312
      Total     72     316    71    0    459      48 115     37    3     203      34 267      20    0    321      35 114     46    1                                             196       1179

  05:00 PM      11     93      27      0        131        10     24      9       0         43         7     88       4      0         99        11     24     13       0         48        321
  05:15 PM      10     92      21      0        123        10     20      4       0         34         8     53       3      1         65         4     23     16       1         44        266                                                  Peak Hour Data
  05:30 PM      19     87      15      0        121        16     25      5       1         47         5     62      12      2         81         2     22     12       0         36        285




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      394


                                                                                                                                                                                                                               47




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Left
  05:45 PM      11    101      19      0        131        14     24     11       0         49         2     75       9      0         86         7     26     24       0         57        323




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  46


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              224
      Total     51    373      82      0        506        50     93     29       1        173        22    278      28      3        331        24     95     65       1        185       1195




                                                                                                                                                                                                         COVINGTON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COVINGTON RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         111
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      111
                                                                                                                                                                                                               199
 Grand Total    123    689    153      0        965        98     208     66      4        376        56     545     48       3       652        59     209    111      2        381       2374




                                                                                                                                                                                                               In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Peak Hour Begins at 04:15 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     200
  Apprch %     12.7   71.4   15.9      0                 26.1    55.3   17.6    1.1                  8.6    83.6    7.4     0.5                15.5    54.9   29.1    0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     40




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Left Peds
    Total %     5.2     29     6.4     0       40.6       4.1     8.8    2.8    0.2       15.8       2.4      23      2     0.1      27.5       2.5     8.8    4.7    0.1          16                                                          Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 40
                                                                                                                                                                                                        195
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             424
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3
                      MIRAMONTE AVE                              COVINGTON RD                               MIRAMONTE AVE                              COVINGTON RD
                        Southbound                                 Westbound                                  Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right     Thru    Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:15 PM
  04:15 PM      14      69     16      0       99   11   37               10       0        58          7     75       4      0        86         5      27     12       1        45        288
  04:30 PM      22      93     17      0      132   12   23               10       1        46         10     60       5      0        75        12      33     10       0        55        308
  04:45 PM      19      90     20      0      129   13   27               11       2        53          9     65       5      0        79        12      27     12       0        51        312
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Left  Thru Right Peds
  05:00 PM      11      93     27      0      131   10   24                9       0        43          7     88       4      0        99        11      24     13       0        48        321                                                       18   288   33     0
 Total Volume   66 345         80      0      491   46 111                40       3       200         33    288      18      0       339        40     111     47       1       199       1229
 % App. Total 13.4 70.3 16.3           0            23 55.5               20     1.5                  9.7     85     5.3      0                20.1    55.8   23.6     0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      425      339    764
         PHF .750 .927 .741 .000             .930 .885 .750             .909   .375       .862      .825    .818   .900    .000      .856      .833    .841   .904   .250       .905        .957
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                         Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                                      Traffic Data Service
                                                                                 Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                               Campbell, CA
                                                                                (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                             (408) 377-2988
                                                                                tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name        : 1PM FINAL                                                                           tdsbay@cs.com                                File Name             : 1PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                    Site Code        : 00000001                                                                                                                         Site Code             : 00000001
                                                                                                                                                    Start Date       : 5/19/2010                                                                                                                        Start Date            : 5/19/2010
BIKES                                                                                                                                               Page No          :1                            BIKES                                                                                                Page No               :2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                         Groups Printed- Bikes                                                                                                                                                             Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6       1      7
                  MIRAMONTE AVE                                COVINGTON RD                    MIRAMONTE AVE                   COVINGTON RD
                     Southbound                                   Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right              Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                            App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0     1              0       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Right Thru        Left       Peds
  04:00 PM       0      0     0      0            0       1       2    1    0         4     0     1    0     0        1     0     0    0    0                                    0          5
  04:15 PM       0      1     0      0            1       0       3    0    0         3     0     2    0     0        2     0     1    0    0                                    1          7
  04:30 PM       0      0     0      0            0       0       5    0    0         5     0     1    0     0        1     0     3    0    0                                    3          9
  04:45 PM       0      0     0      0            0       0       1    0    0         1     0     1    0     0        1     0     0    0    0                                    0          2
      Total      0      1     0      0            1       1      11    1    0       13      0     5    0     0        5     0     4    0    0                                    4         23

  05:00 PM       0      1     0      0            1       0      1       0      0            1       1      1      0      0            2       0      0      0      0            0          4
  05:15 PM       0      0     0      0            0       0      1       0      0            1       1      0      2      0            3       0      0      1      0            1          5
  05:30 PM       0      2     0      0            2       0      1       0      0            1       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0          3
  05:45 PM       1      0     0      0            1       0      2       0      0            2       0      0      0      0            0       0      1      0      0            1          4                                                        Peak Hour Data
      Total      1      3     0      0            4       0      5       0      0            5       2      1      2      0            5       0      1      1      0            2         16




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           15


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                                                                            COVINGTON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COVINGTON RD
 Grand Total     1      4     0      0            5       1      16      1      0          18        2       6      2     0          10        0       5      1     0            6         39




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Peds Right Thru
  Apprch %     20     80      0      0                  5.6    88.9    5.6      0                  20      60     20      0                    0    83.3   16.7     0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11
    Total %    2.6   10.3     0      0       12.8       2.6      41    2.6      0       46.2       5.1    15.4    5.1     0       25.6         0    12.8    2.6     0       15.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Peak Hour Begins at 04:00 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Left Peds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Bikes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                                                                             11
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                     MIRAMONTE AVE                             COVINGTON RD                               MIRAMONTE AVE                             COVINGTON RD
                       Southbound                                Westbound                                  Northbound                                Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
  04:00 PM        0       0     0      0        0     1    2              1      0          4        0       1      0      0           1       0       0      0      0           0          5
  04:15 PM        0       1     0      0        1     0    3              0      0          3        0       2      0      0           2       0       1      0      0           1          7
  04:30 PM        0       0     0      0        0     0    5              0      0          5        0       1      0      0           1       0       3      0      0           3          9
  04:45 PM        0       0     0      0        0     0    1              0      0          1        0       1      0      0           1       0       0      0      0           0          2
 Total Volume     0       1     0      0        1     1   11              1      0         13        0       5      0      0           5       0       4      0      0           4         23                                                          Left       Thru Right Peds
 % App. Total     0 100         0      0            7.7 84.6            7.7      0                   0     100      0      0                   0     100      0      0                                                                                        0       5    0     0
         PHF .000 .250 .000 .000             .250 .250 .550           .250    .000      .650      .000    .625   .000   .000      .625      .000    .333   .000   .000      .333        .639
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2       5      7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                         Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                                      Traffic Data Service
                                                                                 Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                               Campbell, CA
                                                                                (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                             (408) 377-2988
                                                                                tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name        : 1PM FINAL                                                                           tdsbay@cs.com                                File Name             : 1PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                    Site Code        : 00000001                                                                                                                         Site Code             : 00000001
                                                                                                                                                    Start Date       : 5/19/2010                                                                                                                        Start Date            : 5/19/2010
BIKES                                                                                                                                               Page No          :1                            BIKES                                                                                                Page No               :2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                         Groups Printed- Bikes                                                                                                                                                             Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6       1      7
                  MIRAMONTE AVE                                COVINGTON RD                    MIRAMONTE AVE                   COVINGTON RD
                     Southbound                                   Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right              Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                            App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0     1              0       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Right Thru        Left       Peds
  04:00 PM       0      0     0      0            0       1       2    1    0         4     0     1    0     0        1     0     0    0    0                                    0          5
  04:15 PM       0      1     0      0            1       0       3    0    0         3     0     2    0     0        2     0     1    0    0                                    1          7
  04:30 PM       0      0     0      0            0       0       5    0    0         5     0     1    0     0        1     0     3    0    0                                    3          9
  04:45 PM       0      0     0      0            0       0       1    0    0         1     0     1    0     0        1     0     0    0    0                                    0          2
      Total      0      1     0      0            1       1      11    1    0       13      0     5    0     0        5     0     4    0    0                                    4         23

  05:00 PM       0      1     0      0            1       0      1       0      0            1       1      1      0      0            2       0      0      0      0            0          4
  05:15 PM       0      0     0      0            0       0      1       0      0            1       1      0      2      0            3       0      0      1      0            1          5
  05:30 PM       0      2     0      0            2       0      1       0      0            1       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0          3
  05:45 PM       1      0     0      0            1       0      2       0      0            2       0      0      0      0            0       0      1      0      0            1          4                                                        Peak Hour Data
      Total      1      3     0      0            4       0      5       0      0            5       2      1      2      0            5       0      1      1      0            2         16




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           15


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                                                                            COVINGTON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COVINGTON RD
 Grand Total     1      4     0      0            5       1      16      1      0          18        2       6      2     0          10        0       5      1     0            6         39




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Peds Right Thru
  Apprch %     20     80      0      0                  5.6    88.9    5.6      0                  20      60     20      0                    0    83.3   16.7     0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11
    Total %    2.6   10.3     0      0       12.8       2.6      41    2.6      0       46.2       5.1    15.4    5.1     0       25.6         0    12.8    2.6     0       15.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Peak Hour Begins at 04:00 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Left Peds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Bikes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                                                                             11
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                     MIRAMONTE AVE                             COVINGTON RD                               MIRAMONTE AVE                             COVINGTON RD
                       Southbound                                Westbound                                  Northbound                                Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
  04:00 PM        0       0     0      0        0     1    2              1      0          4        0       1      0      0           1       0       0      0      0           0          5
  04:15 PM        0       1     0      0        1     0    3              0      0          3        0       2      0      0           2       0       1      0      0           1          7
  04:30 PM        0       0     0      0        0     0    5              0      0          5        0       1      0      0           1       0       3      0      0           3          9
  04:45 PM        0       0     0      0        0     0    1              0      0          1        0       1      0      0           1       0       0      0      0           0          2
 Total Volume     0       1     0      0        1     1   11              1      0         13        0       5      0      0           5       0       4      0      0           4         23                                                          Left       Thru Right Peds
 % App. Total     0 100         0      0            7.7 84.6            7.7      0                   0     100      0      0                   0     100      0      0                                                                                        0       5    0     0
         PHF .000 .250 .000 .000             .250 .250 .550           .250    .000      .650      .000    .625   .000   .000      .625      .000    .333   .000   .000      .333        .639
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2       5      7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                        Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                    Traffic Data Service
                                                                                Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                            Campbell, CA
                                                                               (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                          (408) 377-2988
                                                                               tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name            : 2AM FINAL                                                    tdsbay@cs.com                                  File Name             : 2AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code            : 00000002                                                                                                    Site Code             : 00000002
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date           : 5/19/2010                                                                                                   Start Date            : 5/19/2010
                                                                                                                                                   Page No              :1                                                                                                            Page No               :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       411      205    616
                                                               Groups Printed- Vehicles
                     MIRAMONTE AVE                   EAST WOOD DR                    MIRAMONTE AVE                                                                                                                                     0   202              3       0
                        Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound                                                                                                  Right Thru        Left       Peds
 Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                                      App. Total   Int. Total
  07:00 AM       0     30    1     0      31      1     0    2    1         4     2    78    0     0      80      0     0    0    0                                              0       115
  07:15 AM       0     27    1     0      28      0     0    0    0         0     0 145      0     0    145       0     0    0    1                                              1       174
  07:30 AM       0     67    1     0      68      0     0    1    0         1     2 113      0     0    115       0     0    0    1                                              1       185
  07:45 AM       0     67    1     0      68      0     0    6    0         6     1    82    0     0      83      0     0    0    0                                              0       157
      Total      0    191    4     0    195       1     0    9    1       11      5 418      0     0    423       0     0    0    2                                              2       631

  08:00 AM       0    41      0      0         41         0      0      6      0           6        0     71      0      0         71         0      0      0      3             3       121
  08:15 AM       0    64      2      0         66         1      0      2      1           4        1     75      0      0         76         0      0      0      0             0       146                                      Peak Hour Data
  08:30 AM       0    56      1      0         57         1      0      3      1           5        1    106      0      0        107         0      0      0      0             0       169




                                                                                                                                                                                                       5


                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                             Left
  08:45 AM       0    60      3      0         63         0      0      8      1           9        9     98      0      0        107         0      0      0      1             1       180




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Out
      Total      0   221      6      0        227         2      0     19      3          24       11    350      0      0        361         0      0      0      4             4       616




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EAST WOOD DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Peds Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                         5
 Grand Total     0    412   10       0        422         3      0      28      4         35      16      768     0      0        784         0      0      0       6            6     1247




                                                                                                                                                                                                   In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               In
  Apprch %       0   97.6   2.4      0                  8.6      0      80   11.4                   2      98     0      0                    0      0      0    100                                                            Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Left Peds
    Total %      0     33   0.8      0       33.8       0.2      0     2.2    0.3        2.8      1.3    61.6     0      0       62.9         0      0      0     0.5         0.5                                               Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          13
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                     MIRAMONTE AVE                             EAST WOOD DR                              MIRAMONTE AVE
                       Southbound                                Westbound                                 Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
  07:15 AM        0     27       1     0       28    0    0              0      0          0         0    145      0      0       145         0       0      0      1            1       174
  07:30 AM        0     67       1     0       68    0    0              1      0          1         2    113      0      0       115         0       0      0      1            1       185
  07:45 AM        0     67       1     0       68    0    0              6      0          6         1     82      0      0        83         0       0      0      0            0       157
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Left       Thru Right Peds
  08:00 AM        0     41       0     0       41    0    0              6      0          6         0     71      0      0        71         0       0      0      3            3       121                                               0     411    3     0
 Total Volume     0 202          3     0      205    0    0             13      0         13         3    411      0      0       414         0       0      0      5            5       637
 % App. Total     0 98.5       1.5     0             0    0            100      0                  0.7   99.3      0      0                   0       0      0    100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       215      414    629
         PHF .000 .754 .750 .000             .754 .000 .000           .542   .000      .542      .375    .709   .000   .000      .714      .000    .000   .000   .417       .417        .861
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                        Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                            Traffic Data Service
                                                                                Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                     Campbell, CA
                                                                               (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                   (408) 377-2988
                                                                               tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name            : 2AM FINAL                                                             tdsbay@cs.com                                 File Name             : 2AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code            : 00000002                                                                                                            Site Code             : 00000002
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date           : 5/19/2010                                                                                                           Start Date            : 5/19/2010
BIKES                                                                                                                                              Page No              :1                         BIKES                                                                                      Page No               :2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                         Groups Printed- Bikes                                                                                                                                                  Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12        4     16
                  MIRAMONTE AVE                                EAST WOOD DR                    MIRAMONTE AVE
                     Southbound                                   Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right              Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                            App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0     4              0       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Right Thru        Left       Peds
  07:00 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0       0    0    0         0     0     1    0     0        1     0     0    0    0                                    0          1
  07:15 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0       0    0    0         0     1     3    0     0        4     0     0    0    0                                    0          4
  07:30 AM       0     1      0      0            1       0       0    0    0         0     3     1    0     0        4     0     0    0    0                                    0          5
  07:45 AM       0     6      0      0            6       0       0    0    0         0     1     1    0     0        2     0     0    0    0                                    0          8
      Total      0     7      0      0            7       0       0    0    0         0     5     6    0     0      11      0     0    0    0                                    0         18

  08:00 AM       0     1      0      0            1       0      0      0      0            0       0      1      0      0           1        0      0      0      0             0          2
  08:15 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      2      0            2       2      5      0      0           7        0      0      0      0             0          9
  08:30 AM       0     1      0      0            1       0      0      0      0            0       3      2      0      0           5        0      0      0      0             0          6
  08:45 AM       0     2      0      0            2       0      0      0      0            0       5      4      0      0           9        0      0      0      0             0         11                                             Peak Hour Data
      Total      0     4      0      0            4       0      0      2      0            2      10     12      0      0          22        0      0      0      0             0         28




                                                                                                                                                                                                               0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EAST WOOD DR
 Grand Total     0     11     0      0          11        0      0       2     0            2      15     18      0      0          33        0      0      0      0             0         46                                                            North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Peds Right Thru
  Apprch %       0    100     0      0                    0      0    100      0                 45.5    54.5     0      0                    0      0      0      0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
    Total %      0   23.9     0      0       23.9         0      0     4.3     0         4.3     32.6    39.1     0      0       71.7         0      0      0      0             0




                                                                                                                                                                                                           In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Bikes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                     MIRAMONTE AVE                             EAST WOOD DR                              MIRAMONTE AVE
                       Southbound                                Westbound                                 Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
  08:00 AM        0       1     0      0        1    0    0              0      0           0       0       1      0      0          1        0       0      0      0            0          2
  08:15 AM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0              2      0           2       2       5      0      0          7        0       0      0      0            0          9
  08:30 AM        0       1     0      0        1    0    0              0      0           0       3       2      0      0          5        0       0      0      0            0          6
  08:45 AM        0       2     0      0        2    0    0              0      0           0       5       4      0      0          9        0       0      0      0            0         11
 Total Volume     0       4     0      0        4    0    0              2      0           2      10      12      0      0         22        0       0      0      0            0         28                                               Left       Thru Right Peds
 % App. Total     0 100         0      0             0    0            100      0                45.5    54.5      0      0                   0       0      0      0                                                                              0      12   10     0
         PHF .000 .500 .000 .000             .500 .000 .000           .250   .000      .250      .500    .600   .000   .000      .611      .000    .000   .000   .000       .000        .636
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6       22    28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                        Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                    Traffic Data Service
                                                                                Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                            Campbell, CA
                                                                               (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                          (408) 377-2988
                                                                               tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name            : 2PM FINAL                                                    tdsbay@cs.com                                  File Name             : 2PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code            : 00000002                                                                                                    Site Code             : 00000002
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date           : 5/19/2010                                                                                                   Start Date            : 5/19/2010
                                                                                                                                                   Page No              :1                                                                                                            Page No               :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       351      429    780
                                                               Groups Printed- Vehicles
                     MIRAMONTE AVE                   EAST WOOD DR                    MIRAMONTE AVE                                                                                                                                     0   425              4       0
                        Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound                                                                                                  Right Thru        Left       Peds
 Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                                      App. Total   Int. Total
  04:00 PM       0     84    1     0      85      3     0    2    0         5     2    84    0     0      86      0     0    0    0                                              0       176
  04:15 PM       0     88    1     0      89      1     0    4    0         5     6    85    0     0      91      0     0    0    1                                              1       186
  04:30 PM       0    115    1     0    116       0     0    1    0         1     3    84    0     0      87      0     0    0    0                                              0       204
  04:45 PM       0    110    1     0    111       0     0    1    2         3     7    79    0     0      86      0     0    0    0                                              0       200
      Total      0    397    4     0    401       4     0    8    2       14     18 332      0     0    350       0     0    0    1                                              1       766

  05:00 PM       0   112      1      0        113         0      0      6      2           8        3    102      0      0        105         0      0      0      1             1       227
  05:15 PM       0   103      1      0        104         1      0      5      0           6        3     62      0      0         65         0      0      0      0             0       175                                      Peak Hour Data
  05:30 PM       0    93      0      0         93         2      0      1      1           4        6     88      0      0         94         0      0      0      0             0       191




                                                                                                                                                                                                       2


                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                             Left
  05:45 PM       0   120      4      0        124         1      0      2      0           3        2     85      0      0         87         0      0      0      0             0       214




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Out
      Total      0   428      6      0        434         4      0     14      3          21       14    337      0      0        351         0      0      0      1             1       807




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         23

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EAST WOOD DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Peds Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                         2
 Grand Total     0    825   10       0        835         8      0      22      5         35       32     669     0      0        701         0      0      0       2            2     1573




                                                                                                                                                                                                   In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               In
  Apprch %       0   98.8   1.2      0                 22.9      0    62.9   14.3                 4.6    95.4     0      0                    0      0      0    100                                                            Peak Hour Begins at 04:15 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Left Peds
    Total %      0   52.4   0.6      0       53.1       0.5      0     1.4    0.3        2.2        2    42.5     0      0       44.6         0      0      0     0.1         0.1                                               Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4
                     MIRAMONTE AVE                             EAST WOOD DR                              MIRAMONTE AVE
                       Southbound                                Westbound                                 Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:15 PM
  04:15 PM        0     88       1     0       89     1    0             4      0          5        6      85     0      0         91         0      0      0      1             1       186
  04:30 PM        0 115          1     0     116      0    0             1      0          1        3      84     0      0         87         0      0      0      0             0       204
  04:45 PM        0 110          1     0     111      0    0             1      2          3        7      79     0      0         86         0      0      0      0             0       200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Left       Thru Right Peds
  05:00 PM        0 112          1     0     113      0    0             6      2          8        3     102     0      0        105         0      0      0      1             1       227                                               0     350   19     0
 Total Volume     0 425          4     0     429      1    0           12       4         17       19     350     0      0        369         0      0      0      2             2       817
 % App. Total     0 99.1       0.9     0            5.9    0          70.6   23.5                 5.1    94.9     0      0                    0      0      0    100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       437      369    806
         PHF .000 .924 1.000 .000            .925  .250 .000          .500   .500       .531      .679   .858   .000   .000       .879      .000   .000   .000   .500        .500        .900
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                        Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                           Traffic Data Service
                                                                                Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                    Campbell, CA
                                                                               (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                  (408) 377-2988
                                                                               tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name        : 2PM FINAL                                                                tdsbay@cs.com                                 File Name             : 2PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code        : 00000002                                                                                                               Site Code             : 00000002
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date       : 5/19/2010                                                                                                              Start Date            : 5/19/2010
BIKES                                                                                                                                              Page No          :1                            BIKES                                                                                      Page No               :2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                         Groups Printed- Bikes                                                                                                                                                 Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10        9     19
                  MIRAMONTE AVE                                EAST WOOD DR                    MIRAMONTE AVE
                     Southbound                                   Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right              Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                           App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0     6              3       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Right Thru        Left       Peds
  04:00 PM       0     1      0      0            1       0       0    1    0         1     1     2    0     0        3     0     0    0    0                                   0          5
  04:15 PM       0     4      0      0            4       0       0    1    0         1     0     1    0     0        1     0     0    0    0                                   0          6
  04:30 PM       0     1      0      0            1       0       0    0    0         0     0     1    0     0        1     0     0    0    0                                   0          2
  04:45 PM       0     0      0      0            0       0       0    2    0         2     0     2    0     0        2     0     0    0    0                                   0          4
      Total      0     6      0      0            6       0       0    4    0         4     1     6    0     0        7     0     0    0    0                                   0         17

  05:00 PM       0     1      3      0            4       3      0      1      0            4       0      3      0      0            3       0      0      0      0            0         11
  05:15 PM       0     1      0      0            1       0      0      0      0            0       0      2      0      0            2       0      0      0      0            0          3
  05:30 PM       0     1      0      0            1       3      0      0      0            3       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0          4
  05:45 PM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0          0                                             Peak Hour Data
      Total      0     3      3      0            6       6      0      1      0            7       0      5      0      0            5       0      0      0      0            0         18




                                                                                                                                                                                                              0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EAST WOOD DR
 Grand Total     0      9     3      0          12        6      0       5     0          11        1     11      0      0          12        0      0      0      0            0         35




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Peds Right Thru
  Apprch %       0    75    25       0                 54.5      0    45.5     0                  8.3    91.7     0      0                    0      0      0      0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
    Total %      0   25.7   8.6      0       34.3      17.1      0    14.3     0       31.4       2.9    31.4     0      0       34.3         0      0      0      0            0




                                                                                                                                                                                                          In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Peak Hour Begins at 04:15 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Bikes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                     MIRAMONTE AVE                             EAST WOOD DR                              MIRAMONTE AVE
                       Southbound                                Westbound                                 Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:15 PM
  04:15 PM        0       4     0      0        4     0   0              1      0           1       0       1      0      0           1       0       0      0      0           0          6
  04:30 PM        0       1     0      0        1     0   0              0      0           0       0       1      0      0           1       0       0      0      0           0          2
  04:45 PM        0       0     0      0        0     0   0              2      0           2       0       2      0      0           2       0       0      0      0           0          4
  05:00 PM        0       1     3      0        4     3   0              1      0           4       0       3      0      0           3       0       0      0      0           0         11
 Total Volume     0       6     3      0        9     3   0              4      0           7       0       7      0      0           7       0       0      0      0           0         23                                               Left       Thru Right Peds
 % App. Total     0 66.7 33.3          0           42.9   0           57.1      0                   0     100      0      0                   0       0      0      0                                                                             0       7    0     0
         PHF .000 .375 .250 .000             .563 .250 .000           .500   .000      .438      .000    .583   .000   .000      .583      .000    .000   .000   .000      .000        .523
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10        7     17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                         Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                                  Traffic Data Service
                                                                                   Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                        Campbell, CA
                                                                                  (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                      (408) 377-2988
                                                                                  tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name            : 3AM FINAL                                                                tdsbay@cs.com                                File Name    : 3AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                      Site Code            : 00000003                                                                                                              Site Code    : 00000003
                                                                                                                                                      Start Date           : 5/19/2010                                                                                                             Start Date   : 5/19/2010
                                                                                                                                                      Page No              :1                                                                                                                      Page No      :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GRANT RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Out       In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      959       494   1453
                                                                              Groups Printed- Vehicles
                         GRANT RD                                                                       GRANT RD                                      COVINGTON RD                                                                                  102   388            0       4
                         Southbound                                Westbound                            Northbound                                      Eastbound                                                                                 Right Thru      Left       Peds
 Start Time Right     Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds      App. Total Right Thru Left Peds              App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds        App. Total   Int. Total
  07:00 AM      15      56    0     0           71         0       0    0    0              0     0 140      27    1                 168        20      0   31     0             51        290
  07:15 AM      13      75    0     0           88         0       0    0    0              0     0 142      40    1                 183         4      0   33     0             37        308
  07:30 AM      20     127    0     0          147         0       0    0    0              0     0 124      24    0                 148         8      0   51     0             59        354
  07:45 AM      21      86    0     0          107         0       0    0    0              0     0 146      15    0                 161        14      0   38     0             52        320
      Total     69     344    0     0          413         0       0    0    0              0     0 552 106        2                 660        46      0 153      0            199       1272

  08:00 AM      17     56      0      1         74         0      0      0        0           0       0    119     21       0        140        15      0     31       0         46        260
  08:15 AM      29    101      0      0        130         0      0      0        0           0       0    167     19       0        186        33      0     29       2         64        380                                                   Peak Hour Data
  08:30 AM      22    121      0      3        146         0      0      0        0           0       0    216     29       1        246        30      0     78       1        109        501




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     533


                                                                                                                                                                                                                             210




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Left
  08:45 AM      34    110      0      0        144         0      0      0        0           0       0    247     38       1        286        33      0     72       0        105        535




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Out
      Total    102    388      0      4        494         0      0      0        0           0       0    749    107       2        858       111      0    210       3        324       1676




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                        COVINGTON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Peds Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                              324
 Grand Total   171    732      0      4        907         0      0      0        0           0       0 1301      213       4      1518        157      0     363      3        523        2948




                                                                                                                                                                                                              In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        In
  Apprch %     18.9   80.7     0     0.4                   0      0      0        0                   0    85.7    14     0.3                   30      0    69.4    0.6                                                                       Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   111




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
    Total %     5.8   24.8     0     0.1      30.8         0      0      0        0           0       0    44.1   7.2     0.1       51.5       5.3      0    12.3    0.1       17.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                       209
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                        GRANT RD                                                                             GRANT RD                                 COVINGTON RD
                        Southbound                                Westbound                                  Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right     Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left    Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
  08:00 AM      17      56      0      1       74    0    0               0       0           0       0     119     21       0       140        15       0     31       0        46        260
  08:15 AM      29 101           0     0      130    0    0               0       0           0       0     167     19       0       186        33       0     29       2        64        380
  08:30 AM      22 121           0     3      146    0    0               0       0           0       0     216     29       1       246        30       0     78       1       109        501
  08:45 AM      34 110           0     0      144    0    0               0       0           0       0     247     38       1       286        33       0     72       0       105        535                                                     Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    107   749    0     2
 Total Volume  102 388          0      4      494    0    0               0       0           0       0     749    107       2       858       111       0    210       3       324       1676
 % App. Total 20.6 78.5         0    0.8             0    0               0       0                   0    87.3   12.5     0.2                34.3       0   64.8     0.9
         PHF .750 .802 .000 .333             .846 .000 .000            .000    .000      .000      .000    .758   .704   .500       .750      .841    .000   .673   .375       .743        .783                                                       499       858   1357
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Out       In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GRANT RD
                                                                        Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                                      Traffic Data Service
                                                                                Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                               Campbell, CA
                                                                               (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                             (408) 377-2988
                                                                               tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name       : 3AM FINAL                                                                            tdsbay@cs.com                                     File Name    : 3AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code       : 00000003                                                                                                                               Site Code    : 00000003
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date      : 5/19/2010                                                                                                                              Start Date   : 5/19/2010
BIKES                                                                                                                                              Page No         :1                             BIKES                                                                                                     Page No      :2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GRANT RD
                                                                             Groups Printed- Bikes                                                                                                                                                        Out           In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8         10    18
                     GRANT RD                                                                              GRANT RD                                COVINGTON RD
                     Southbound                                  Westbound                                 Northbound                                Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds          App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2     8                  0       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Right Thru            Left       Peds
  07:00 AM       0     2      0      0            2       0      0    0     0               0       0      0    0     0               0       2      0    0     0               2          4
  07:15 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0    0     0               0       0      2    0     0               2       0      0    0     0               0          2
  07:30 AM       1     2      0      0            3       0      0    0     0               0       0      2    0     0               2       0      0    0     0               0          5
  07:45 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0    0     0               0       0      0    0     0               0       0      0    1     0               1          1
      Total      1     4      0      0            5       0      0    0     0               0       0      4    0     0               4       2      0    1     0               3         12

  08:00 AM       0     1      0      0           1        0      0      0      0            0       0      2      0      0            2       0      0      0      0           0           3
  08:15 AM       0     1      0      0           1        0      0      0      0            0       0      3      0      0            3       9      0      1      0          10          14
  08:30 AM       1     6      0      0           7        0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0      12      0      1      0          13          20
  08:45 AM       1     0      0      0           1        0      0      0      0            0       0      1      1      0            2       2      0      0      0           2           5                                                        Peak Hour Data
      Total      2     8      0      0          10        0      0      0      0            0       0      6      1      0            7      23      0      2      0          25          42




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          28


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                           COVINGTON RD
 Grand Total     3    12      0      0          15        0      0      0      0            0       0     10       1     0          11       25      0       3     0          28          54




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Peds Right Thru
  Apprch %     20     80      0      0                    0      0      0      0                    0    90.9    9.1     0                 89.3      0    10.7     0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25
    Total %    5.6   22.2     0      0       27.8         0      0      0      0            0       0    18.5    1.9     0       20.4      46.3      0     5.6     0       51.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       23




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Bikes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                       GRANT RD                                                                            GRANT RD                                COVINGTON RD
                       Southbound                                 Westbound                                Northbound                                Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
  08:00 AM        0       1     0      0        1    0    0              0      0           0       0       2      0      0           2       0       0      0      0          0           3
  08:15 AM        0       1     0      0        1    0    0              0      0           0       0       3      0      0           3       9       0      1      0         10          14
  08:30 AM        1       6     0      0        7    0    0              0      0           0       0       0      0      0           0      12       0      1      0         13          20
  08:45 AM        1       0     0      0        1    0    0              0      0           0       0       1      1      0           2       2       0      0      0          2           5
 Total Volume     2       8     0      0       10    0    0              0      0           0       0       6      1      0           7      23       0      2      0         25          42                                                          Left           Thru Right Peds
 % App. Total   20      80      0      0             0    0              0      0                   0    85.7   14.3      0                  92       0      8      0                                                                                        1           6    0     0
         PHF .500 .333 .000 .000             .357 .000 .000           .000   .000      .000      .000    .500   .250   .000      .583      .479    .000   .500   .000      .481        .525
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            31             7     38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Out           In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GRANT RD
                                                                         Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                                  Traffic Data Service
                                                                                   Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                        Campbell, CA
                                                                                  (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                      (408) 377-2988
                                                                                  tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name            : 3PM FINAL                                                                tdsbay@cs.com                                File Name    : 3PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                      Site Code            : 00000003                                                                                                              Site Code    : 00000003
                                                                                                                                                      Start Date           : 5/19/2010                                                                                                             Start Date   : 5/19/2010
                                                                                                                                                      Page No              :1                                                                                                                      Page No      :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GRANT RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Out       In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      590      1028   1618
                                                                              Groups Printed- Vehicles
                         GRANT RD                                                                       GRANT RD                                      COVINGTON RD                                                                                  145   883            0       0
                         Southbound                                Westbound                            Northbound                                      Eastbound                                                                                 Right Thru      Left       Peds
 Start Time Right     Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds      App. Total Right Thru Left Peds              App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds        App. Total   Int. Total
  04:00 PM      40     194    0     0          234         0       0    0    0              0     0 143      16    0                 159        27      0   25     1             53        446
  04:15 PM      30     171    0     5          206         0       0    0    0              0     0 128      41    0                 169        16      0   28     1             45        420
  04:30 PM      23     199    0     1          223         0       0    0    0              0     0 101      27    0                 128        20      0   44     3             67        418
  04:45 PM      30     196    0     0          226         0       0    0    0              0     0 123      31    0                 154        15      0   26     0             41        421
      Total    123     760    0     6          889         0       0    0    0              0     0 495 115        0                 610        78      0 123      5            206       1705

  05:00 PM      35    241      0      0       276          0      0      0        0           0       0     82     12       0         94        23      0     30      0          53        423
  05:15 PM      36    224      0      0       260          0      0      0        0           0       0    130     19       0        149        19      0     29      0          48        457                                                   Peak Hour Data
  05:30 PM      44    222      0      0       266          0      0      0        0           0       0    137     11       1        149        21      0     33      2          56        471




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     416


                                                                                                                                                                                                                             118




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Left
  05:45 PM      41    195      0      0       236          0      0      0        0           0       0    105     30       0        135        16      0     21      0          37        408




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Out
      Total    156    882      0      0      1038          0      0      0        0           0       0    454     72       1        527        79      0    113      2         194       1759




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                        COVINGTON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Peds Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                              198
 Grand Total   279 1642        0       6     1927          0      0      0        0           0       0     949    187      1      1137        157      0    236       7        400        3464




                                                                                                                                                                                                              In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        In
  Apprch %     14.5   85.2     0     0.3                   0      0      0        0                   0    83.5   16.4    0.1                 39.2      0     59     1.8                                                                       Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    78




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
    Total %     8.1   47.4     0     0.2      55.6         0      0      0        0           0       0    27.4    5.4      0       32.8       4.5      0    6.8     0.2       11.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                       218
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                        GRANT RD                                                                             GRANT RD                                 COVINGTON RD
                        Southbound                                Westbound                                  Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right     Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left    Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
  04:45 PM      30 196           0     0      226    0    0               0       0           0       0     123     31       0       154        15       0     26      0         41        421
  05:00 PM      35 241           0     0      276    0    0               0       0           0       0      82     12       0        94        23       0     30      0         53        423
  05:15 PM      36 224           0     0      260    0    0               0       0           0       0     130     19       0       149        19       0     29      0         48        457
  05:30 PM      44 222           0     0      266    0    0               0       0           0       0     137     11       1       149        21       0     33      2         56        471                                                     Left  Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      73   472    0     1
 Total Volume  145 883          0      0    1028     0    0               0       0           0       0     472     73       1       546        78       0    118      2        198       1772
 % App. Total 14.1 85.9         0      0             0    0               0       0                   0    86.4   13.4     0.2                39.4       0   59.6      1
         PHF .824 .916 .000 .000             .931 .000 .000            .000    .000      .000      .000    .861   .589   .250       .886      .848    .000   .894   .250       .884        .941                                                       961       546   1507
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Out       In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GRANT RD
                                                                         Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                                      Traffic Data Service
                                                                                 Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                               Campbell, CA
                                                                                (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                             (408) 377-2988
                                                                                tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name        : 3PM FINAL                                                                           tdsbay@cs.com                                     File Name    : 3PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                    Site Code        : 00000003                                                                                                                              Site Code    : 00000003
                                                                                                                                                    Start Date       : 5/19/2010                                                                                                                             Start Date   : 5/19/2010
BIKES                                                                                                                                               Page No          :1                            BIKES                                                                                                     Page No      :2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GRANT RD
                                                                              Groups Printed- Bikes                                                                                                                                                        Out           In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7         9     16
                     GRANT RD                                                                               GRANT RD                                COVINGTON RD
                     Southbound                                   Westbound                                 Northbound                                Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds           App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1     8                  0       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Right Thru            Left       Peds
  04:00 PM       0      3      0      0            3       0      0    0     0               0       0      2    0     0               2       0      0    0     0               0          5
  04:15 PM       1      2      0      0            3       0      0    0     0               0       0      1    3     0               4       0      0    0     0               0          7
  04:30 PM       0      1      0      0            1       0      0    0     0               0       0      0    1     0               1       0      0    1     0               1          3
  04:45 PM       0      0      0      0            0       0      0    0     0               0       0      1    0     0               1       0      0    0     0               0          1
      Total      1      6      0      0            7       0      0    0     0               0       0      4    4     0               8       0      0    1     0               1         16

  05:00 PM       0      2      0      0            2       0      0      0      0            0       0      1      0      0            1       0      0      1      0            1          4
  05:15 PM       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0          0
  05:30 PM       1      3      0      0            4       0      0      0      0            0       0      4      0      0            4       0      0      0      0            0          8
  05:45 PM       0      3      0      0            3       0      0      0      0            0       0      1      2      0            3       0      0      0      0            0          6                                                        Peak Hour Data
      Total      1      8      0      0            9       0      0      0      0            0       0      6      2      0            8       0      0      1      0            1         18




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            COVINGTON RD
 Grand Total      2     14     0      0          16        0      0      0      0            0       0     10       6     0          16        0      0       2     0            2         34




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Peds Right Thru
  Apprch %     12.5   87.5     0      0                    0      0      0      0                    0    62.5   37.5     0                    0      0    100      0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1
    Total %     5.9   41.2     0      0       47.1         0      0      0      0            0       0    29.4   17.6     0       47.1         0      0     5.9     0         5.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Bikes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                        GRANT RD                                                                            GRANT RD                                COVINGTON RD
                        Southbound                                 Westbound                                Northbound                                Eastbound
 Start Time Right     Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
  05:00 PM        0       2     0      0        2    0    0               0      0           0       0       1      0      0           1       0       0      1      0           1          4
  05:15 PM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0               0      0           0       0       0      0      0           0       0       0      0      0           0          0
  05:30 PM        1       3     0      0        4    0    0               0      0           0       0       4      0      0           4       0       0      0      0           0          8
  05:45 PM        0       3     0      0        3    0    0               0      0           0       0       1      2      0           3       0       0      0      0           0          6
 Total Volume     1       8     0      0        9    0    0               0      0           0       0       6      2      0           8       0       0      1      0           1         18                                                          Left           Thru Right Peds
 % App. Total 11.1 88.9         0      0             0    0               0      0                   0      75     25      0                   0       0    100      0                                                                                        2           6    0     0
         PHF .250 .667 .000 .000             .563 .000 .000            .000   .000      .000      .000    .375   .250   .000      .500      .000    .000   .250   .000      .250        .563
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8         8     16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Out           In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GRANT RD
                                                                           Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                                Traffic Data Service
                                                                                    Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                       Campbell, CA
                                                                                   (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                     (408) 377-2988
                                                                                   tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name            : 1AM FINAL                                                               tdsbay@cs.com                         File Name              : 1AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                       Site Code            : 00000001                                                                                                      Site Code              : 00000001
                                                                                                                                                       Start Date           : 5/19/2010                                                                                                     Start Date             : 5/19/2010
                                                                                                                                                       Page No              :1                                                                                                              Page No                :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      414      292    706
                                                                Groups Printed- Vehicles
                      MIRAMONTE AVE                   COVINGTON RD                    MIRAMONTE AVE                   COVINGTON RD                                                                                                                   23   174        94    1
                         Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound                                                                                                                Right Thru      Left Peds
 Start Time Right     Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                                         App. Total   Int. Total
  07:00 AM       4      27    12    0      43     15    17    1    2       35      7    71    1     0      79      2    26   13    0                                              41        198
  07:15 AM      13      22     5    0      40     24    15    1    0       40     17 119      1     0    137       1    21   49    1                                              72        289
  07:30 AM       7      47    17    0      71     26    16    5    1       48     11 105      0     1    117       1    34   56    0                                              91        327
  07:45 AM       7      54    16    0      77      7    38    8    2       55     13    62    0     0      75      3    36   16    1                                              56        263
      Total     31     150    50    0    231      72    86   15    5     178      48 357      2     1    408       7 117 134       2                                             260       1077

  08:00 AM       3     38       9      0         50         8     26       2       0         36        17     65      2      2         86         3     24     24       4         55        227
  08:15 AM       8     51      21      1         81        10     35       5       0         50        16     61      6      5         88         6     32     28       2         68        287                                                  Peak Hour Data
  08:30 AM       5     43      36      0         84         9     21       6       0         36        20     82      3     33        138         8     51     21      12         92        350




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      454


                                                                                                                                                                                                                               92




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Left
  08:45 AM       7     42      28      0         77        20     41      10       3         74        22     67      2     30        121         4     52     19       5         80        352




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  47


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              328
      Total     23    174      94      1        292        47    123      23       3        196        75    275     13     70        433        21    159     92      23        295       1216




                                                                                                                                                                                                         COVINGTON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COVINGTON RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         159
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      123
                                                                                                                                                                                                               295
 Grand Total     54   324     144       1       523       119     209     38       8        374       123     632     15     71       841        28     276   226      25        555       2293




                                                                                                                                                                                                               In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     196
  Apprch %     10.3    62    27.5     0.2                31.8    55.9    10.2    2.1                 14.6    75.1    1.8    8.4                   5    49.7   40.7    4.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Left Peds
    Total %     2.4   14.1     6.3      0      22.8        5.2     9.1    1.7    0.3       16.3        5.4   27.6    0.7    3.1      36.7       1.2      12    9.9    1.1       24.2                                                           Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 23
                                                                                                                                                                                                        159
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               23




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             524
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3
                      MIRAMONTE AVE                              COVINGTON RD                                MIRAMONTE AVE                             COVINGTON RD
                        Southbound                                 Westbound                                   Northbound                                Eastbound
 Start Time Right     Thru    Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
  08:00 AM        3     38      9      0       50    8   26                 2       0        36        17      65      2      2        86          3     24     24       4        55        227
  08:15 AM        8     51     21      1       81   10   35                 5       0        50        16      61      6      5        88          6     32     28       2        68        287
  08:30 AM        5     43     36      0       84    9   21                 6       0        36        20      82      3     33       138          8     51     21      12        92        350
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Left  Thru Right Peds
  08:45 AM        7     42     28      0       77   20   41                10       3        74        22      67      2     30       121          4     52     19       5        80        352                                                       13   275   75    70
 Total Volume   23 174         94      1      292   47 123                 23       3       196        75     275     13     70       433         21    159     92      23       295       1216
 % App. Total  7.9 59.6 32.2         0.3            24 62.8              11.7     1.5                17.3    63.5      3   16.2                  7.1   53.9   31.2     7.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      218      433    651
         PHF .719 .853 .653 .250             .869 .588 .750              .575   .250       .662      .852    .838   .542   .530      .784      .656    .764   .821   .479       .802        .864
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                        Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                                      Traffic Data Service
                                                                                Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                               Campbell, CA
                                                                               (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                             (408) 377-2988
                                                                               tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name        : 1AM FINAL                                                                           tdsbay@cs.com                                 File Name              : 1AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code        : 00000001                                                                                                                          Site Code              : 00000001
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date       : 5/19/2010                                                                                                                         Start Date             : 5/19/2010
BIKES                                                                                                                                              Page No          :1                             BIKES                                                                                                Page No                :2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                         Groups Printed- Bikes                                                                                                                                                            Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9       14    23
                  MIRAMONTE AVE                                COVINGTON RD                    MIRAMONTE AVE                   COVINGTON RD
                     Southbound                                   Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right              Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                            App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1    12              1       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Right Thru        Left       Peds
  07:00 AM       0      0     0      0            0       0       0    0    0         0     0     1    0     0        1     0     1    0    0                                   1           2
  07:15 AM       0      1     0      0            1       0       0    0    0         0     0     2    0     0        2     0     2    0    0                                   2           5
  07:30 AM       0      2     0      0            2       0       0    0    0         0     0     0    0     0        0     0     5    0    0                                   5           7
  07:45 AM       1      1     0      0            2       1       1    0    0         2     1     0    0     0        1     0     4    1    0                                   5          10
      Total      1      4     0      0            5       1       1    0    0         2     1     3    0     0        4     0    12    1    0                                  13          24

  08:00 AM       0     2      0      0           2        0      1      0      0            1       0      1      0      0            1       0      3       0      0           3           7
  08:15 AM       0     4      1      0           5        0      0      0      0            0       0      3      0      0            3       0     11       0      0          11          19
  08:30 AM       0     5      0      0           5        0      0      0      0            0       0      3      0      0            3       0     15       0      4          19          27
  08:45 AM       0     1      0      0           1        0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      2       0      0           2           3                                                       Peak Hour Data
      Total      0    12      1      0          13        0      1      0      0            1       0      7      0      0            7       0     31       0      4          35          56




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           41


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           35
                                                                                                                                                                                                            COVINGTON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            COVINGTON RD
 Grand Total     1     16     1      0          18        1       2     0      0            3       1     10      0      0          11        0      43      1       4         48          80                                                                      North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             33
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Peds Right Thru
  Apprch %     5.6   88.9   5.6      0                 33.3    66.7     0      0                  9.1    90.9     0      0                    0    89.6    2.1     8.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    38
    Total %    1.2     20   1.2      0       22.5       1.2     2.5     0      0         3.8      1.2    12.5     0      0       13.8         0    53.8    1.2       5         60




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Bikes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                     MIRAMONTE AVE                             COVINGTON RD                              MIRAMONTE AVE                             COVINGTON RD
                       Southbound                                Westbound                                 Northbound                                Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
  07:45 AM        1       1      0     0        2     1    1             0      0           2       1       0      0      0           1       0       4       1      0          5          10
  08:00 AM        0       2      0     0        2     0    1             0      0           1       0       1      0      0           1       0       3       0      0          3           7
  08:15 AM        0       4      1     0        5     0    0             0      0           0       0       3      0      0           3       0      11       0      0         11          19
  08:30 AM        0       5      0     0        5     0    0             0      0           0       0       3      0      0           3       0      15       0      4         19          27
 Total Volume     1     12       1     0       14     1    2             0      0           3       1       7      0      0           8       0      33       1      4         38          63                                                         Left       Thru Right Peds
 % App. Total  7.1 85.7        7.1     0           33.3 66.7             0      0                12.5    87.5      0      0                   0    86.8     2.6   10.5                                                                                       0       7    1     0
         PHF .250 .600 .250 .000             .700 .250 .500           .000   .000      .375      .250    .583   .000   .000      .667      .000    .550   .250    .250      .500        .583
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12        8     20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                          Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                                                                                   Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                        Campbell, CA
                                                                                  (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                      (408) 377-2988
                                                                                  tdsbay@cs.com                                                        File Name            : 1PM FINAL                                                               tdsbay@cs.com                         File Name              : 1PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                       Site Code            : 00000001                                                                                                      Site Code              : 00000001
                                                                                                                                                       Start Date           : 5/19/2010                                                                                                     Start Date             : 5/19/2010
                                                                                                                                                       Page No              :1                                                                                                              Page No                :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      381      491    872
                                                                Groups Printed- Vehicles
                      MIRAMONTE AVE                   COVINGTON RD                    MIRAMONTE AVE                   COVINGTON RD                                                                                                                   66   345        80    0
                         Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound                                                                                                                Right Thru      Left Peds
 Start Time Right     Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                                         App. Total   Int. Total
  04:00 PM      17      64    18    0      99     12    28    6    0       46      8    67     6    0      81      6    27   12    0                                              45        271
  04:15 PM      14      69    16    0      99     11    37   10    0       58      7    75     4    0      86      5    27   12    1                                              45        288
  04:30 PM      22      93    17    0    132      12    23   10    1       46     10    60     5    0      75     12    33   10    0                                              55        308
  04:45 PM      19      90    20    0    129      13    27   11    2       53      9    65     5    0      79     12    27   12    0                                              51        312
      Total     72     316    71    0    459      48 115     37    3     203      34 267      20    0    321      35 114     46    1                                             196       1179

  05:00 PM      11     93      27      0        131        10     24      9       0         43         7     88       4      0         99        11     24     13       0         48        321
  05:15 PM      10     92      21      0        123        10     20      4       0         34         8     53       3      1         65         4     23     16       1         44        266                                                  Peak Hour Data
  05:30 PM      19     87      15      0        121        16     25      5       1         47         5     62      12      2         81         2     22     12       0         36        285




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      394


                                                                                                                                                                                                                               47




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Left
  05:45 PM      11    101      19      0        131        14     24     11       0         49         2     75       9      0         86         7     26     24       0         57        323




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  46


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              224
      Total     51    373      82      0        506        50     93     29       1        173        22    278      28      3        331        24     95     65       1        185       1195




                                                                                                                                                                                                         COVINGTON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COVINGTON RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         111
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      111
                                                                                                                                                                                                               199
 Grand Total    123    689    153      0        965        98     208     66      4        376        56     545     48       3       652        59     209    111      2        381       2374




                                                                                                                                                                                                               In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Peak Hour Begins at 04:15 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     200
  Apprch %     12.7   71.4   15.9      0                 26.1    55.3   17.6    1.1                  8.6    83.6    7.4     0.5                15.5    54.9   29.1    0.5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     40




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Left Peds
    Total %     5.2     29     6.4     0       40.6       4.1     8.8    2.8    0.2       15.8       2.4      23      2     0.1      27.5       2.5     8.8    4.7    0.1          16                                                          Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 40
                                                                                                                                                                                                        195
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             424
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3
                      MIRAMONTE AVE                              COVINGTON RD                               MIRAMONTE AVE                              COVINGTON RD
                        Southbound                                 Westbound                                  Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right     Thru    Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:15 PM
  04:15 PM      14      69     16      0       99   11   37               10       0        58          7     75       4      0        86         5      27     12       1        45        288
  04:30 PM      22      93     17      0      132   12   23               10       1        46         10     60       5      0        75        12      33     10       0        55        308
  04:45 PM      19      90     20      0      129   13   27               11       2        53          9     65       5      0        79        12      27     12       0        51        312
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Left  Thru Right Peds
  05:00 PM      11      93     27      0      131   10   24                9       0        43          7     88       4      0        99        11      24     13       0        48        321                                                       18   288   33     0
 Total Volume   66 345         80      0      491   46 111                40       3       200         33    288      18      0       339        40     111     47       1       199       1229
 % App. Total 13.4 70.3 16.3           0            23 55.5               20     1.5                  9.7     85     5.3      0                20.1    55.8   23.6     0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      425      339    764
         PHF .750 .927 .741 .000             .930 .885 .750             .909   .375       .862      .825    .818   .900    .000      .856      .833    .841   .904   .250       .905        .957
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                         Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                                      Traffic Data Service
                                                                                 Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                               Campbell, CA
                                                                                (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                             (408) 377-2988
                                                                                tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name        : 1PM FINAL                                                                           tdsbay@cs.com                                File Name             : 1PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                    Site Code        : 00000001                                                                                                                         Site Code             : 00000001
                                                                                                                                                    Start Date       : 5/19/2010                                                                                                                        Start Date            : 5/19/2010
BIKES                                                                                                                                               Page No          :1                            BIKES                                                                                                Page No               :2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                         Groups Printed- Bikes                                                                                                                                                             Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6       1      7
                  MIRAMONTE AVE                                COVINGTON RD                    MIRAMONTE AVE                   COVINGTON RD
                     Southbound                                   Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right              Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                            App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0     1              0       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Right Thru        Left       Peds
  04:00 PM       0      0     0      0            0       1       2    1    0         4     0     1    0     0        1     0     0    0    0                                    0          5
  04:15 PM       0      1     0      0            1       0       3    0    0         3     0     2    0     0        2     0     1    0    0                                    1          7
  04:30 PM       0      0     0      0            0       0       5    0    0         5     0     1    0     0        1     0     3    0    0                                    3          9
  04:45 PM       0      0     0      0            0       0       1    0    0         1     0     1    0     0        1     0     0    0    0                                    0          2
      Total      0      1     0      0            1       1      11    1    0       13      0     5    0     0        5     0     4    0    0                                    4         23

  05:00 PM       0      1     0      0            1       0      1       0      0            1       1      1      0      0            2       0      0      0      0            0          4
  05:15 PM       0      0     0      0            0       0      1       0      0            1       1      0      2      0            3       0      0      1      0            1          5
  05:30 PM       0      2     0      0            2       0      1       0      0            1       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0          3
  05:45 PM       1      0     0      0            1       0      2       0      0            2       0      0      0      0            0       0      1      0      0            1          4                                                        Peak Hour Data
      Total      1      3     0      0            4       0      5       0      0            5       2      1      2      0            5       0      1      1      0            2         16




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           15


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                                                                            COVINGTON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COVINGTON RD
 Grand Total     1      4     0      0            5       1      16      1      0          18        2       6      2     0          10        0       5      1     0            6         39




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Peds Right Thru
  Apprch %     20     80      0      0                  5.6    88.9    5.6      0                  20      60     20      0                    0    83.3   16.7     0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11
    Total %    2.6   10.3     0      0       12.8       2.6      41    2.6      0       46.2       5.1    15.4    5.1     0       25.6         0    12.8    2.6     0       15.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Peak Hour Begins at 04:00 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Left Peds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Bikes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                                                                             11
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                     MIRAMONTE AVE                             COVINGTON RD                               MIRAMONTE AVE                             COVINGTON RD
                       Southbound                                Westbound                                  Northbound                                Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
  04:00 PM        0       0     0      0        0     1    2              1      0          4        0       1      0      0           1       0       0      0      0           0          5
  04:15 PM        0       1     0      0        1     0    3              0      0          3        0       2      0      0           2       0       1      0      0           1          7
  04:30 PM        0       0     0      0        0     0    5              0      0          5        0       1      0      0           1       0       3      0      0           3          9
  04:45 PM        0       0     0      0        0     0    1              0      0          1        0       1      0      0           1       0       0      0      0           0          2
 Total Volume     0       1     0      0        1     1   11              1      0         13        0       5      0      0           5       0       4      0      0           4         23                                                          Left       Thru Right Peds
 % App. Total     0 100         0      0            7.7 84.6            7.7      0                   0     100      0      0                   0     100      0      0                                                                                        0       5    0     0
         PHF .000 .250 .000 .000             .250 .250 .550           .250    .000      .650      .000    .625   .000   .000      .625      .000    .333   .000   .000      .333        .639
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2       5      7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                        Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                    Traffic Data Service
                                                                                Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                            Campbell, CA
                                                                               (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                          (408) 377-2988
                                                                               tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name            : 2AM FINAL                                                    tdsbay@cs.com                                  File Name             : 2AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code            : 00000002                                                                                                    Site Code             : 00000002
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date           : 5/19/2010                                                                                                   Start Date            : 5/19/2010
                                                                                                                                                   Page No              :1                                                                                                            Page No               :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       411      205    616
                                                               Groups Printed- Vehicles
                     MIRAMONTE AVE                   EAST WOOD DR                    MIRAMONTE AVE                                                                                                                                     0   202              3       0
                        Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound                                                                                                  Right Thru        Left       Peds
 Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                                      App. Total   Int. Total
  07:00 AM       0     30    1     0      31      1     0    2    1         4     2    78    0     0      80      0     0    0    0                                              0       115
  07:15 AM       0     27    1     0      28      0     0    0    0         0     0 145      0     0    145       0     0    0    1                                              1       174
  07:30 AM       0     67    1     0      68      0     0    1    0         1     2 113      0     0    115       0     0    0    1                                              1       185
  07:45 AM       0     67    1     0      68      0     0    6    0         6     1    82    0     0      83      0     0    0    0                                              0       157
      Total      0    191    4     0    195       1     0    9    1       11      5 418      0     0    423       0     0    0    2                                              2       631

  08:00 AM       0    41      0      0         41         0      0      6      0           6        0     71      0      0         71         0      0      0      3             3       121
  08:15 AM       0    64      2      0         66         1      0      2      1           4        1     75      0      0         76         0      0      0      0             0       146                                      Peak Hour Data
  08:30 AM       0    56      1      0         57         1      0      3      1           5        1    106      0      0        107         0      0      0      0             0       169




                                                                                                                                                                                                       5


                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                             Left
  08:45 AM       0    60      3      0         63         0      0      8      1           9        9     98      0      0        107         0      0      0      1             1       180




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Out
      Total      0   221      6      0        227         2      0     19      3          24       11    350      0      0        361         0      0      0      4             4       616




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EAST WOOD DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Peds Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                         5
 Grand Total     0    412   10       0        422         3      0      28      4         35      16      768     0      0        784         0      0      0       6            6     1247




                                                                                                                                                                                                   In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               In
  Apprch %       0   97.6   2.4      0                  8.6      0      80   11.4                   2      98     0      0                    0      0      0    100                                                            Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Left Peds
    Total %      0     33   0.8      0       33.8       0.2      0     2.2    0.3        2.8      1.3    61.6     0      0       62.9         0      0      0     0.5         0.5                                               Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          13
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                     MIRAMONTE AVE                             EAST WOOD DR                              MIRAMONTE AVE
                       Southbound                                Westbound                                 Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
  07:15 AM        0     27       1     0       28    0    0              0      0          0         0    145      0      0       145         0       0      0      1            1       174
  07:30 AM        0     67       1     0       68    0    0              1      0          1         2    113      0      0       115         0       0      0      1            1       185
  07:45 AM        0     67       1     0       68    0    0              6      0          6         1     82      0      0        83         0       0      0      0            0       157
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Left       Thru Right Peds
  08:00 AM        0     41       0     0       41    0    0              6      0          6         0     71      0      0        71         0       0      0      3            3       121                                               0     411    3     0
 Total Volume     0 202          3     0      205    0    0             13      0         13         3    411      0      0       414         0       0      0      5            5       637
 % App. Total     0 98.5       1.5     0             0    0            100      0                  0.7   99.3      0      0                   0       0      0    100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       215      414    629
         PHF .000 .754 .750 .000             .754 .000 .000           .542   .000      .542      .375    .709   .000   .000      .714      .000    .000   .000   .417       .417        .861
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                        Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                            Traffic Data Service
                                                                                Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                     Campbell, CA
                                                                               (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                   (408) 377-2988
                                                                               tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name            : 2AM FINAL                                                             tdsbay@cs.com                                 File Name             : 2AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code            : 00000002                                                                                                            Site Code             : 00000002
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date           : 5/19/2010                                                                                                           Start Date            : 5/19/2010
BIKES                                                                                                                                              Page No              :1                         BIKES                                                                                      Page No               :2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                         Groups Printed- Bikes                                                                                                                                                  Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12        4     16
                  MIRAMONTE AVE                                EAST WOOD DR                    MIRAMONTE AVE
                     Southbound                                   Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right              Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                            App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0     4              0       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Right Thru        Left       Peds
  07:00 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0       0    0    0         0     0     1    0     0        1     0     0    0    0                                    0          1
  07:15 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0       0    0    0         0     1     3    0     0        4     0     0    0    0                                    0          4
  07:30 AM       0     1      0      0            1       0       0    0    0         0     3     1    0     0        4     0     0    0    0                                    0          5
  07:45 AM       0     6      0      0            6       0       0    0    0         0     1     1    0     0        2     0     0    0    0                                    0          8
      Total      0     7      0      0            7       0       0    0    0         0     5     6    0     0      11      0     0    0    0                                    0         18

  08:00 AM       0     1      0      0            1       0      0      0      0            0       0      1      0      0           1        0      0      0      0             0          2
  08:15 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      2      0            2       2      5      0      0           7        0      0      0      0             0          9
  08:30 AM       0     1      0      0            1       0      0      0      0            0       3      2      0      0           5        0      0      0      0             0          6
  08:45 AM       0     2      0      0            2       0      0      0      0            0       5      4      0      0           9        0      0      0      0             0         11                                             Peak Hour Data
      Total      0     4      0      0            4       0      0      2      0            2      10     12      0      0          22        0      0      0      0             0         28




                                                                                                                                                                                                               0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EAST WOOD DR
 Grand Total     0     11     0      0          11        0      0       2     0            2      15     18      0      0          33        0      0      0      0             0         46                                                            North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Peds Right Thru
  Apprch %       0    100     0      0                    0      0    100      0                 45.5    54.5     0      0                    0      0      0      0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
    Total %      0   23.9     0      0       23.9         0      0     4.3     0         4.3     32.6    39.1     0      0       71.7         0      0      0      0             0




                                                                                                                                                                                                           In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Bikes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                     MIRAMONTE AVE                             EAST WOOD DR                              MIRAMONTE AVE
                       Southbound                                Westbound                                 Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
  08:00 AM        0       1     0      0        1    0    0              0      0           0       0       1      0      0          1        0       0      0      0            0          2
  08:15 AM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0              2      0           2       2       5      0      0          7        0       0      0      0            0          9
  08:30 AM        0       1     0      0        1    0    0              0      0           0       3       2      0      0          5        0       0      0      0            0          6
  08:45 AM        0       2     0      0        2    0    0              0      0           0       5       4      0      0          9        0       0      0      0            0         11
 Total Volume     0       4     0      0        4    0    0              2      0           2      10      12      0      0         22        0       0      0      0            0         28                                               Left       Thru Right Peds
 % App. Total     0 100         0      0             0    0            100      0                45.5    54.5      0      0                   0       0      0      0                                                                              0      12   10     0
         PHF .000 .500 .000 .000             .500 .000 .000           .250   .000      .250      .500    .600   .000   .000      .611      .000    .000   .000   .000       .000        .636
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6       22    28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                        Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                    Traffic Data Service
                                                                                Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                            Campbell, CA
                                                                               (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                          (408) 377-2988
                                                                               tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name            : 2PM FINAL                                                    tdsbay@cs.com                                  File Name             : 2PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code            : 00000002                                                                                                    Site Code             : 00000002
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date           : 5/19/2010                                                                                                   Start Date            : 5/19/2010
                                                                                                                                                   Page No              :1                                                                                                            Page No               :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       351      429    780
                                                               Groups Printed- Vehicles
                     MIRAMONTE AVE                   EAST WOOD DR                    MIRAMONTE AVE                                                                                                                                     0   425              4       0
                        Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound                                                                                                  Right Thru        Left       Peds
 Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                                      App. Total   Int. Total
  04:00 PM       0     84    1     0      85      3     0    2    0         5     2    84    0     0      86      0     0    0    0                                              0       176
  04:15 PM       0     88    1     0      89      1     0    4    0         5     6    85    0     0      91      0     0    0    1                                              1       186
  04:30 PM       0    115    1     0    116       0     0    1    0         1     3    84    0     0      87      0     0    0    0                                              0       204
  04:45 PM       0    110    1     0    111       0     0    1    2         3     7    79    0     0      86      0     0    0    0                                              0       200
      Total      0    397    4     0    401       4     0    8    2       14     18 332      0     0    350       0     0    0    1                                              1       766

  05:00 PM       0   112      1      0        113         0      0      6      2           8        3    102      0      0        105         0      0      0      1             1       227
  05:15 PM       0   103      1      0        104         1      0      5      0           6        3     62      0      0         65         0      0      0      0             0       175                                      Peak Hour Data
  05:30 PM       0    93      0      0         93         2      0      1      1           4        6     88      0      0         94         0      0      0      0             0       191




                                                                                                                                                                                                       2


                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                             Left
  05:45 PM       0   120      4      0        124         1      0      2      0           3        2     85      0      0         87         0      0      0      0             0       214




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Out
      Total      0   428      6      0        434         4      0     14      3          21       14    337      0      0        351         0      0      0      1             1       807




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         23

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EAST WOOD DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Peds Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                         2
 Grand Total     0    825   10       0        835         8      0      22      5         35       32     669     0      0        701         0      0      0       2            2     1573




                                                                                                                                                                                                   In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               In
  Apprch %       0   98.8   1.2      0                 22.9      0    62.9   14.3                 4.6    95.4     0      0                    0      0      0    100                                                            Peak Hour Begins at 04:15 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Left Peds
    Total %      0   52.4   0.6      0       53.1       0.5      0     1.4    0.3        2.2        2    42.5     0      0       44.6         0      0      0     0.1         0.1                                               Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4
                     MIRAMONTE AVE                             EAST WOOD DR                              MIRAMONTE AVE
                       Southbound                                Westbound                                 Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:15 PM
  04:15 PM        0     88       1     0       89     1    0             4      0          5        6      85     0      0         91         0      0      0      1             1       186
  04:30 PM        0 115          1     0     116      0    0             1      0          1        3      84     0      0         87         0      0      0      0             0       204
  04:45 PM        0 110          1     0     111      0    0             1      2          3        7      79     0      0         86         0      0      0      0             0       200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Left       Thru Right Peds
  05:00 PM        0 112          1     0     113      0    0             6      2          8        3     102     0      0        105         0      0      0      1             1       227                                               0     350   19     0
 Total Volume     0 425          4     0     429      1    0           12       4         17       19     350     0      0        369         0      0      0      2             2       817
 % App. Total     0 99.1       0.9     0            5.9    0          70.6   23.5                 5.1    94.9     0      0                    0      0      0    100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       437      369    806
         PHF .000 .924 1.000 .000            .925  .250 .000          .500   .500       .531      .679   .858   .000   .000       .879      .000   .000   .000   .500        .500        .900
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                        Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                           Traffic Data Service
                                                                                Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                    Campbell, CA
                                                                               (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                  (408) 377-2988
                                                                               tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name        : 2PM FINAL                                                                tdsbay@cs.com                                 File Name             : 2PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code        : 00000002                                                                                                               Site Code             : 00000002
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date       : 5/19/2010                                                                                                              Start Date            : 5/19/2010
BIKES                                                                                                                                              Page No          :1                            BIKES                                                                                      Page No               :2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                         Groups Printed- Bikes                                                                                                                                                 Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10        9     19
                  MIRAMONTE AVE                                EAST WOOD DR                    MIRAMONTE AVE
                     Southbound                                   Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right              Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                           App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0     6              3       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Right Thru        Left       Peds
  04:00 PM       0     1      0      0            1       0       0    1    0         1     1     2    0     0        3     0     0    0    0                                   0          5
  04:15 PM       0     4      0      0            4       0       0    1    0         1     0     1    0     0        1     0     0    0    0                                   0          6
  04:30 PM       0     1      0      0            1       0       0    0    0         0     0     1    0     0        1     0     0    0    0                                   0          2
  04:45 PM       0     0      0      0            0       0       0    2    0         2     0     2    0     0        2     0     0    0    0                                   0          4
      Total      0     6      0      0            6       0       0    4    0         4     1     6    0     0        7     0     0    0    0                                   0         17

  05:00 PM       0     1      3      0            4       3      0      1      0            4       0      3      0      0            3       0      0      0      0            0         11
  05:15 PM       0     1      0      0            1       0      0      0      0            0       0      2      0      0            2       0      0      0      0            0          3
  05:30 PM       0     1      0      0            1       3      0      0      0            3       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0          4
  05:45 PM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0          0                                             Peak Hour Data
      Total      0     3      3      0            6       6      0      1      0            7       0      5      0      0            5       0      0      0      0            0         18




                                                                                                                                                                                                              0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EAST WOOD DR
 Grand Total     0      9     3      0          12        6      0       5     0          11        1     11      0      0          12        0      0      0      0            0         35




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Peds Right Thru
  Apprch %       0    75    25       0                 54.5      0    45.5     0                  8.3    91.7     0      0                    0      0      0      0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
    Total %      0   25.7   8.6      0       34.3      17.1      0    14.3     0       31.4       2.9    31.4     0      0       34.3         0      0      0      0            0




                                                                                                                                                                                                          In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Peak Hour Begins at 04:15 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Bikes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                     MIRAMONTE AVE                             EAST WOOD DR                              MIRAMONTE AVE
                       Southbound                                Westbound                                 Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:15 PM
  04:15 PM        0       4     0      0        4     0   0              1      0           1       0       1      0      0           1       0       0      0      0           0          6
  04:30 PM        0       1     0      0        1     0   0              0      0           0       0       1      0      0           1       0       0      0      0           0          2
  04:45 PM        0       0     0      0        0     0   0              2      0           2       0       2      0      0           2       0       0      0      0           0          4
  05:00 PM        0       1     3      0        4     3   0              1      0           4       0       3      0      0           3       0       0      0      0           0         11
 Total Volume     0       6     3      0        9     3   0              4      0           7       0       7      0      0           7       0       0      0      0           0         23                                               Left       Thru Right Peds
 % App. Total     0 66.7 33.3          0           42.9   0           57.1      0                   0     100      0      0                   0       0      0      0                                                                             0       7    0     0
         PHF .000 .375 .250 .000             .563 .250 .000           .500   .000      .438      .000    .583   .000   .000      .583      .000    .000   .000   .000      .000        .523
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10        7     17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                         Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                                  Traffic Data Service
                                                                                   Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                        Campbell, CA
                                                                                  (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                      (408) 377-2988
                                                                                  tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name            : 3AM FINAL                                                                tdsbay@cs.com                                File Name    : 3AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                      Site Code            : 00000003                                                                                                              Site Code    : 00000003
                                                                                                                                                      Start Date           : 5/19/2010                                                                                                             Start Date   : 5/19/2010
                                                                                                                                                      Page No              :1                                                                                                                      Page No      :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GRANT RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Out       In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      959       494   1453
                                                                              Groups Printed- Vehicles
                         GRANT RD                                                                       GRANT RD                                      COVINGTON RD                                                                                  102   388            0       4
                         Southbound                                Westbound                            Northbound                                      Eastbound                                                                                 Right Thru      Left       Peds
 Start Time Right     Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds      App. Total Right Thru Left Peds              App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds        App. Total   Int. Total
  07:00 AM      15      56    0     0           71         0       0    0    0              0     0 140      27    1                 168        20      0   31     0             51        290
  07:15 AM      13      75    0     0           88         0       0    0    0              0     0 142      40    1                 183         4      0   33     0             37        308
  07:30 AM      20     127    0     0          147         0       0    0    0              0     0 124      24    0                 148         8      0   51     0             59        354
  07:45 AM      21      86    0     0          107         0       0    0    0              0     0 146      15    0                 161        14      0   38     0             52        320
      Total     69     344    0     0          413         0       0    0    0              0     0 552 106        2                 660        46      0 153      0            199       1272

  08:00 AM      17     56      0      1         74         0      0      0        0           0       0    119     21       0        140        15      0     31       0         46        260
  08:15 AM      29    101      0      0        130         0      0      0        0           0       0    167     19       0        186        33      0     29       2         64        380                                                   Peak Hour Data
  08:30 AM      22    121      0      3        146         0      0      0        0           0       0    216     29       1        246        30      0     78       1        109        501




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     533


                                                                                                                                                                                                                             210




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Left
  08:45 AM      34    110      0      0        144         0      0      0        0           0       0    247     38       1        286        33      0     72       0        105        535




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Out
      Total    102    388      0      4        494         0      0      0        0           0       0    749    107       2        858       111      0    210       3        324       1676




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                        COVINGTON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Peds Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                              324
 Grand Total   171    732      0      4        907         0      0      0        0           0       0 1301      213       4      1518        157      0     363      3        523        2948




                                                                                                                                                                                                              In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        In
  Apprch %     18.9   80.7     0     0.4                   0      0      0        0                   0    85.7    14     0.3                   30      0    69.4    0.6                                                                       Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   111




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
    Total %     5.8   24.8     0     0.1      30.8         0      0      0        0           0       0    44.1   7.2     0.1       51.5       5.3      0    12.3    0.1       17.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                       209
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                        GRANT RD                                                                             GRANT RD                                 COVINGTON RD
                        Southbound                                Westbound                                  Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right     Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left    Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
  08:00 AM      17      56      0      1       74    0    0               0       0           0       0     119     21       0       140        15       0     31       0        46        260
  08:15 AM      29 101           0     0      130    0    0               0       0           0       0     167     19       0       186        33       0     29       2        64        380
  08:30 AM      22 121           0     3      146    0    0               0       0           0       0     216     29       1       246        30       0     78       1       109        501
  08:45 AM      34 110           0     0      144    0    0               0       0           0       0     247     38       1       286        33       0     72       0       105        535                                                     Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    107   749    0     2
 Total Volume  102 388          0      4      494    0    0               0       0           0       0     749    107       2       858       111       0    210       3       324       1676
 % App. Total 20.6 78.5         0    0.8             0    0               0       0                   0    87.3   12.5     0.2                34.3       0   64.8     0.9
         PHF .750 .802 .000 .333             .846 .000 .000            .000    .000      .000      .000    .758   .704   .500       .750      .841    .000   .673   .375       .743        .783                                                       499       858   1357
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Out       In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GRANT RD
                                                                        Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                                      Traffic Data Service
                                                                                Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                               Campbell, CA
                                                                               (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                             (408) 377-2988
                                                                               tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name       : 3AM FINAL                                                                            tdsbay@cs.com                                     File Name    : 3AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code       : 00000003                                                                                                                               Site Code    : 00000003
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date      : 5/19/2010                                                                                                                              Start Date   : 5/19/2010
BIKES                                                                                                                                              Page No         :1                             BIKES                                                                                                     Page No      :2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GRANT RD
                                                                             Groups Printed- Bikes                                                                                                                                                        Out           In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8         10    18
                     GRANT RD                                                                              GRANT RD                                COVINGTON RD
                     Southbound                                  Westbound                                 Northbound                                Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds          App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2     8                  0       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Right Thru            Left       Peds
  07:00 AM       0     2      0      0            2       0      0    0     0               0       0      0    0     0               0       2      0    0     0               2          4
  07:15 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0    0     0               0       0      2    0     0               2       0      0    0     0               0          2
  07:30 AM       1     2      0      0            3       0      0    0     0               0       0      2    0     0               2       0      0    0     0               0          5
  07:45 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0    0     0               0       0      0    0     0               0       0      0    1     0               1          1
      Total      1     4      0      0            5       0      0    0     0               0       0      4    0     0               4       2      0    1     0               3         12

  08:00 AM       0     1      0      0           1        0      0      0      0            0       0      2      0      0            2       0      0      0      0           0           3
  08:15 AM       0     1      0      0           1        0      0      0      0            0       0      3      0      0            3       9      0      1      0          10          14
  08:30 AM       1     6      0      0           7        0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0      12      0      1      0          13          20
  08:45 AM       1     0      0      0           1        0      0      0      0            0       0      1      1      0            2       2      0      0      0           2           5                                                        Peak Hour Data
      Total      2     8      0      0          10        0      0      0      0            0       0      6      1      0            7      23      0      2      0          25          42




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          28


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                           COVINGTON RD
 Grand Total     3    12      0      0          15        0      0      0      0            0       0     10       1     0          11       25      0       3     0          28          54




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Peds Right Thru
  Apprch %     20     80      0      0                    0      0      0      0                    0    90.9    9.1     0                 89.3      0    10.7     0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25
    Total %    5.6   22.2     0      0       27.8         0      0      0      0            0       0    18.5    1.9     0       20.4      46.3      0     5.6     0       51.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       23




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Bikes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                       GRANT RD                                                                            GRANT RD                                COVINGTON RD
                       Southbound                                 Westbound                                Northbound                                Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
  08:00 AM        0       1     0      0        1    0    0              0      0           0       0       2      0      0           2       0       0      0      0          0           3
  08:15 AM        0       1     0      0        1    0    0              0      0           0       0       3      0      0           3       9       0      1      0         10          14
  08:30 AM        1       6     0      0        7    0    0              0      0           0       0       0      0      0           0      12       0      1      0         13          20
  08:45 AM        1       0     0      0        1    0    0              0      0           0       0       1      1      0           2       2       0      0      0          2           5
 Total Volume     2       8     0      0       10    0    0              0      0           0       0       6      1      0           7      23       0      2      0         25          42                                                          Left           Thru Right Peds
 % App. Total   20      80      0      0             0    0              0      0                   0    85.7   14.3      0                  92       0      8      0                                                                                        1           6    0     0
         PHF .500 .333 .000 .000             .357 .000 .000           .000   .000      .000      .000    .500   .250   .000      .583      .479    .000   .500   .000      .481        .525
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            31             7     38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Out           In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GRANT RD
                                                                         Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                                  Traffic Data Service
                                                                                   Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                        Campbell, CA
                                                                                  (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                      (408) 377-2988
                                                                                  tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name            : 3PM FINAL                                                                tdsbay@cs.com                                File Name    : 3PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                      Site Code            : 00000003                                                                                                              Site Code    : 00000003
                                                                                                                                                      Start Date           : 5/19/2010                                                                                                             Start Date   : 5/19/2010
                                                                                                                                                      Page No              :1                                                                                                                      Page No      :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GRANT RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Out       In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      590      1028   1618
                                                                              Groups Printed- Vehicles
                         GRANT RD                                                                       GRANT RD                                      COVINGTON RD                                                                                  145   883            0       0
                         Southbound                                Westbound                            Northbound                                      Eastbound                                                                                 Right Thru      Left       Peds
 Start Time Right     Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds      App. Total Right Thru Left Peds              App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds        App. Total   Int. Total
  04:00 PM      40     194    0     0          234         0       0    0    0              0     0 143      16    0                 159        27      0   25     1             53        446
  04:15 PM      30     171    0     5          206         0       0    0    0              0     0 128      41    0                 169        16      0   28     1             45        420
  04:30 PM      23     199    0     1          223         0       0    0    0              0     0 101      27    0                 128        20      0   44     3             67        418
  04:45 PM      30     196    0     0          226         0       0    0    0              0     0 123      31    0                 154        15      0   26     0             41        421
      Total    123     760    0     6          889         0       0    0    0              0     0 495 115        0                 610        78      0 123      5            206       1705

  05:00 PM      35    241      0      0       276          0      0      0        0           0       0     82     12       0         94        23      0     30      0          53        423
  05:15 PM      36    224      0      0       260          0      0      0        0           0       0    130     19       0        149        19      0     29      0          48        457                                                   Peak Hour Data
  05:30 PM      44    222      0      0       266          0      0      0        0           0       0    137     11       1        149        21      0     33      2          56        471




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     416


                                                                                                                                                                                                                             118




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Left
  05:45 PM      41    195      0      0       236          0      0      0        0           0       0    105     30       0        135        16      0     21      0          37        408




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Out
      Total    156    882      0      0      1038          0      0      0        0           0       0    454     72       1        527        79      0    113      2         194       1759




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                        COVINGTON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Peds Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                              198
 Grand Total   279 1642        0       6     1927          0      0      0        0           0       0     949    187      1      1137        157      0    236       7        400        3464




                                                                                                                                                                                                              In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        In
  Apprch %     14.5   85.2     0     0.3                   0      0      0        0                   0    83.5   16.4    0.1                 39.2      0     59     1.8                                                                       Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    78




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
    Total %     8.1   47.4     0     0.2      55.6         0      0      0        0           0       0    27.4    5.4      0       32.8       4.5      0    6.8     0.2       11.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                       218
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                        GRANT RD                                                                             GRANT RD                                 COVINGTON RD
                        Southbound                                Westbound                                  Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right     Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left    Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
  04:45 PM      30 196           0     0      226    0    0               0       0           0       0     123     31       0       154        15       0     26      0         41        421
  05:00 PM      35 241           0     0      276    0    0               0       0           0       0      82     12       0        94        23       0     30      0         53        423
  05:15 PM      36 224           0     0      260    0    0               0       0           0       0     130     19       0       149        19       0     29      0         48        457
  05:30 PM      44 222           0     0      266    0    0               0       0           0       0     137     11       1       149        21       0     33      2         56        471                                                     Left  Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      73   472    0     1
 Total Volume  145 883          0      0    1028     0    0               0       0           0       0     472     73       1       546        78       0    118      2        198       1772
 % App. Total 14.1 85.9         0      0             0    0               0       0                   0    86.4   13.4     0.2                39.4       0   59.6      1
         PHF .824 .916 .000 .000             .931 .000 .000            .000    .000      .000      .000    .861   .589   .250       .886      .848    .000   .894   .250       .884        .941                                                       961       546   1507
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Out       In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GRANT RD
                                                                         Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                                      Traffic Data Service
                                                                                 Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                               Campbell, CA
                                                                                (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                             (408) 377-2988
                                                                                tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name        : 3PM FINAL                                                                           tdsbay@cs.com                                     File Name    : 3PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                    Site Code        : 00000003                                                                                                                              Site Code    : 00000003
                                                                                                                                                    Start Date       : 5/19/2010                                                                                                                             Start Date   : 5/19/2010
BIKES                                                                                                                                               Page No          :1                            BIKES                                                                                                     Page No      :2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GRANT RD
                                                                              Groups Printed- Bikes                                                                                                                                                        Out           In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7         9     16
                     GRANT RD                                                                               GRANT RD                                COVINGTON RD
                     Southbound                                   Westbound                                 Northbound                                Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds           App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1     8                  0       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Right Thru            Left       Peds
  04:00 PM       0      3      0      0            3       0      0    0     0               0       0      2    0     0               2       0      0    0     0               0          5
  04:15 PM       1      2      0      0            3       0      0    0     0               0       0      1    3     0               4       0      0    0     0               0          7
  04:30 PM       0      1      0      0            1       0      0    0     0               0       0      0    1     0               1       0      0    1     0               1          3
  04:45 PM       0      0      0      0            0       0      0    0     0               0       0      1    0     0               1       0      0    0     0               0          1
      Total      1      6      0      0            7       0      0    0     0               0       0      4    4     0               8       0      0    1     0               1         16

  05:00 PM       0      2      0      0            2       0      0      0      0            0       0      1      0      0            1       0      0      1      0            1          4
  05:15 PM       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0          0
  05:30 PM       1      3      0      0            4       0      0      0      0            0       0      4      0      0            4       0      0      0      0            0          8
  05:45 PM       0      3      0      0            3       0      0      0      0            0       0      1      2      0            3       0      0      0      0            0          6                                                        Peak Hour Data
      Total      1      8      0      0            9       0      0      0      0            0       0      6      2      0            8       0      0      1      0            1         18




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            COVINGTON RD
 Grand Total      2     14     0      0          16        0      0      0      0            0       0     10       6     0          16        0      0       2     0            2         34




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Peds Right Thru
  Apprch %     12.5   87.5     0      0                    0      0      0      0                    0    62.5   37.5     0                    0      0    100      0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1
    Total %     5.9   41.2     0      0       47.1         0      0      0      0            0       0    29.4   17.6     0       47.1         0      0     5.9     0         5.9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Bikes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               3
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                        GRANT RD                                                                            GRANT RD                                COVINGTON RD
                        Southbound                                 Westbound                                Northbound                                Eastbound
 Start Time Right     Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
  05:00 PM        0       2     0      0        2    0    0               0      0           0       0       1      0      0           1       0       0      1      0           1          4
  05:15 PM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0               0      0           0       0       0      0      0           0       0       0      0      0           0          0
  05:30 PM        1       3     0      0        4    0    0               0      0           0       0       4      0      0           4       0       0      0      0           0          8
  05:45 PM        0       3     0      0        3    0    0               0      0           0       0       1      2      0           3       0       0      0      0           0          6
 Total Volume     1       8     0      0        9    0    0               0      0           0       0       6      2      0           8       0       0      1      0           1         18                                                          Left           Thru Right Peds
 % App. Total 11.1 88.9         0      0             0    0               0      0                   0      75     25      0                   0       0    100      0                                                                                        2           6    0     0
         PHF .250 .667 .000 .000             .563 .000 .000            .000   .000      .000      .000    .375   .250   .000      .500      .000    .000   .250   .000      .250        .563
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8         8     16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Out           In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GRANT RD
                                                                          Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                                                                                   Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                        Campbell, CA
                                                                                  (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                      (408) 377-2988
                                                                                  tdsbay@cs.com                                                        File Name            : 1AM FINAL                                                               tdsbay@cs.com                           File Name              : 1AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                       Site Code            : 00000001                                                                                                        Site Code              : 00000001
                                                                                                                                                       Start Date           : 5/20/2010                                                                                                       Start Date             : 5/20/2010
                                                                                                                                                       Page No              :1                                                                                                                Page No                :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      537      290    827
                                                                Groups Printed- Vehicles
                      MIRAMONTE AVE                   COVINGTON RD                    MIRAMONTE AVE                   COVINGTON RD                                                                                                                   35   161          93    1
                         Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound                                                                                                                Right Thru        Left Peds
 Start Time Right     Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                                         App. Total   Int. Total
  07:00 AM       7      17     7    0      31     21    10    2    0       33      5    54    0     0      59      0    13   12    1                                              26        149
  07:15 AM       6      21    10    0      37     20    15    1    0       36     23 104      3     1    131       1    27   45    0                                              73        277
  07:30 AM      13      47    20    1      81     33    20    4    2       59     23    98    0   13     134       0    46   57    7                                             110        384
  07:45 AM       4      38    34    0      76     22    51    6    2       81     32    49    1   45     127       1    72    6    8                                              87        371
      Total     30     123    71    1    225      96    96   13    4     209      83 305      4   59     451       2 158 120      16                                             296       1181

  08:00 AM      12     55     29      0         96        26     61       9       0         96        25     63       0     14        102         3     56     14       2         75        369
  08:15 AM      12     44     13      0         69         7     49       6       1         63         8     72       6      1         87         6     21     26       1         54        273                                                  Peak Hour Data
  08:30 AM       9     43     13      0         65        11     15       5       0         31        11     89       2      2        104         8     32     38       1         79        279




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      531


                                                                                                                                                                                                                              122




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Left
  08:45 AM       7     47     16      0         70        13     22       7       1         43         7     85       5      0         97         5     27     27       3         62        272




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   101



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                397
      Total     40    189     71      0        300        57    147      27       2        233        51    309      13     17        390        22    136    105       7        270       1193




                                                                                                                                                                                                         COVINGTON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COVINGTON RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        147
                                                                                                                                                                                                               345
 Grand Total     70    312   142       1       525       153    243     40        6        442       134    614      17      76       841       24      294   225     23         566       2374




                                                                                                                                                                                                               In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       272
  Apprch %     13.3   59.4    27     0.2                34.6     55       9     1.4                 15.9     73       2       9                 4.2    51.9   39.8    4.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Left Peds
    Total %     2.9   13.1     6       0      22.1        6.4   10.2    1.7     0.3       18.6        5.6   25.9    0.7     3.2      35.4         1    12.4    9.5      1       23.8                                                           Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   20
                                                                                                                                                                                                        186
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               17




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               669
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4
                      MIRAMONTE AVE                             COVINGTON RD                                MIRAMONTE AVE                              COVINGTON RD
                        Southbound                                Westbound                                   Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right     Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
  07:15 AM        6     21     10      0       37    20  15                1       0        36        23     104       3      1       131          1     27     45       0        73        277
  07:30 AM      13      47     20      1       81    33  20                4       2        59        23      98       0     13       134          0     46     57       7       110        384
  07:45 AM        4     38     34      0       76    22  51                6       2        81        32      49       1     45       127          1     72      6       8        87        371
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Left       Thru Right Peds
  08:00 AM      12      55     29      0       96    26  61                9       0        96        25      63       0     14       102          3     56     14       2        75        369                                                           4     314  103    73
 Total Volume   35 161         93      1      290 101 147                 20       4       272       103     314       4     73       494          5    201    122      17       345       1401
 % App. Total 12.1 55.5 32.1         0.3           37.1  54              7.4     1.5                20.9    63.6     0.8   14.8                  1.4   58.3   35.4     4.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      186      494    680
         PHF .673 .732 .684 .250             .755 .765 .602            .556    .500       .708      .805    .755   .333    .406      .922      .417    .698   .535   .531       .784        .912
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                        Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                                      Traffic Data Service
                                                                                Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                               Campbell, CA
                                                                               (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                             (408) 377-2988
                                                                               tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name       : 1AM FINAL                                                                            tdsbay@cs.com                                 File Name             : 1AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code       : 00000001                                                                                                                           Site Code             : 00000001
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date      : 5/20/2010                                                                                                                          Start Date            : 5/20/2010
BIKES                                                                                                                                              Page No         :1                             BIKES                                                                                                 Page No               :2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                         Groups Printed- Bikes                                                                                                                                                            Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5       4      9
                  MIRAMONTE AVE                                COVINGTON RD                    MIRAMONTE AVE                   COVINGTON RD
                     Southbound                                   Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right              Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                           App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0     4              0       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Right Thru        Left       Peds
  07:00 AM       0     2      0      0            2       0       0    0    0         0     0     1    0     0        1     0     1    0    0                                   1          4
  07:15 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0       0    0    0         0     0     3    0     0        3     0     3    0    0                                   3          6
  07:30 AM       0     1      0      0            1       0       0    0    0         0     0     1    0     0        1     0     1    0    0                                   1          3
  07:45 AM       0     1      0      0            1       0       5    0    0         5     0     0    0     0        0     0     0    0    0                                   0          6
      Total      0     4      0      0            4       0       5    0    0         5     0     5    0     0        5     0     5    0    0                                   5         19

  08:00 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0      1      0      0            1       0      1      0      0            1       0      2      0      0            2          4
  08:15 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      1      0      0            1       0      0      1      0            1          2
  08:30 AM       0     0      1      0            1       0      1      0      0            1       0      2      1      0            3       0      1      0      0            1          6
  08:45 AM       0     1      0      0            1       0      1      0      0            1       0      0      0      0            0       1      1      0      0            2          4                                                        Peak Hour Data
      Total      0     1      1      0            2       0      3      0      0            3       0      4      1      0            5       1      4      1      0            6         16




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                           COVINGTON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COVINGTON RD
 Grand Total     0      5      1     0            6       0       8     0      0            8       0       9      1     0          10        1       9      1     0          11          35




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Peds Right Thru
  Apprch %       0   83.3   16.7     0                    0     100     0      0                    0     90     10      0                  9.1    81.8    9.1     0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5
    Total %      0   14.3    2.9     0       17.1         0    22.9     0      0       22.9         0    25.7    2.9     0       28.6       2.9    25.7    2.9     0       31.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 07:00 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Bikes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              5
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                     MIRAMONTE AVE                             COVINGTON RD                              MIRAMONTE AVE                             COVINGTON RD
                       Southbound                                Westbound                                 Northbound                                Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
  07:00 AM        0       2     0      0        2    0    0              0      0           0       0       1      0      0           1       0       1      0      0           1          4
  07:15 AM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0              0      0           0       0       3      0      0           3       0       3      0      0           3          6
  07:30 AM        0       1     0      0        1    0    0              0      0           0       0       1      0      0           1       0       1      0      0           1          3
  07:45 AM        0       1     0      0        1    0    5              0      0           5       0       0      0      0           0       0       0      0      0           0          6
 Total Volume     0       4     0      0        4    0    5              0      0           5       0       5      0      0           5       0       5      0      0           5         19                                                          Left       Thru Right Peds
 % App. Total     0 100         0      0             0 100               0      0                   0     100      0      0                   0     100      0      0                                                                                        0       5    0     0
         PHF .000 .500 .000 .000             .500 .000 .250           .000   .000      .250      .000    .417   .000   .000      .417      .000    .417   .000   .000      .417        .792
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4       5      9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                          Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                                                                                   Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                        Campbell, CA
                                                                                  (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                      (408) 377-2988
                                                                                  tdsbay@cs.com                                                         File Name        : 1PM FINAL                                                                  tdsbay@cs.com                         File Name              : 1PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                        Site Code        : 00000001                                                                                                         Site Code              : 00000001
                                                                                                                                                        Start Date       : 5/20/2010                                                                                                        Start Date             : 5/20/2010
                                                                                                                                                        Page No          :1                                                                                                                 Page No                :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      394      498    892
                                                                Groups Printed- Vehicles
                      MIRAMONTE AVE                   COVINGTON RD                    MIRAMONTE AVE                   COVINGTON RD                                                                                                                   50   368        79    1
                         Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound                                                                                                                Right Thru      Left Peds
 Start Time Right     Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                                         App. Total   Int. Total
  04:00 PM      14      65    20    1    100      16    35    6    0       57      8    62     4    2      76      4    20   15    1                                              40        273
  04:15 PM       8      69    19    0      96     13    30    6    0       49      3    78     8    1      90      8    24   21    0                                              53        288
  04:30 PM      18      78    11    0    107      11    24    3    1       39      5    51     7    0      63      7    15   18    1                                              41        250
  04:45 PM      19      80    17    0    116      13    31    5    0       49      6    56     4    0      66      3    25   23    1                                              52        283
      Total     59     292    67    1    419      53 120     20    1     194      22 247      23    3    295      22    84   77    3                                             186       1094

  05:00 PM      13     85      18      1        117        13     39      7       0         59         8     63       4       2         77         8     27     22      0         57        310
  05:15 PM      15     86      22      0        123        12     17      7       2         38         8     59       5       0         72        12     29     16      0         57        290                                                  Peak Hour Data
  05:30 PM      12    103      20      0        135        12     41     15       0         68         7     63       4       0         74         3     23     10      0         36        313




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      403


                                                                                                                                                                                                                               70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Left
  05:45 PM      10     94      19      0        123        23     32      7       0         62         4     79       3       0         86         3     33     22      0         58        329




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  60


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              218
      Total     50    368      79      1        498        60    129     36       2        227        27    264      16       2        309        26    112     70      0        208       1242




                                                                                                                                                                                                         COVINGTON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COVINGTON RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         112
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      129
                                                                                                                                                                                                               208
 Grand Total    109   660     146       2       917       113     249     56      3        421        49     511     39       5        604        48     196    147      3       394       2336




                                                                                                                                                                                                               In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     227
  Apprch %     11.9    72    15.9     0.2                26.8    59.1   13.3    0.7                  8.1    84.6    6.5     0.8                 12.2    49.7   37.3    0.8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     26




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Left Peds
    Total %     4.7   28.3     6.2    0.1      39.3        4.8   10.7    2.4    0.1          18      2.1    21.9    1.7     0.2       25.9       2.1     8.4    6.3    0.1      16.9                                                           Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 36
                                                                                                                                                                                                        195
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             445
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2
                      MIRAMONTE AVE                              COVINGTON RD                               MIRAMONTE AVE                               COVINGTON RD
                        Southbound                                 Westbound                                  Northbound                                  Eastbound
 Start Time Right     Thru    Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
  05:00 PM      13      85     18      1      117    13  39                7       0        59          8     63       4       2        77         8      27     22      0        57        310
  05:15 PM      15      86     22      0      123    12  17                7       2        38          8     59       5       0        72        12      29     16      0        57        290
  05:30 PM      12 103         20      0      135    12  41               15       0        68          7     63       4       0        74         3      23     10      0        36        313
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Left  Thru Right Peds
  05:45 PM      10      94     19      0      123    23  32                7       0        62          4     79       3       0        86         3      33     22      0        58        329                                                       16   264   27     2
 Total Volume   50 368         79      1      498    60 129               36       2       227         27    264      16       2       309        26     112     70      0       208       1242
 % App. Total   10 73.9 15.9         0.2           26.4 56.8            15.9     0.9                  8.7   85.4     5.2     0.6                12.5    53.8   33.7      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      430      309    739
         PHF .833 .893 .898 .250             .922 .652 .787             .600   .250       .835      .844    .835   .800    .250       .898      .542    .848   .795   .000      .897        .944
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                        Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                                      Traffic Data Service
                                                                                Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                               Campbell, CA
                                                                               (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                             (408) 377-2988
                                                                               tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name        : 1PM FINAL                                                                           tdsbay@cs.com                                 File Name             : 1PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code        : 00000001                                                                                                                          Site Code             : 00000001
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date       : 5/20/2010                                                                                                                         Start Date            : 5/20/2010
BIKES                                                                                                                                              Page No          :1                            BIKES                                                                                                 Page No               :2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                         Groups Printed- Bikes                                                                                                                                                            Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7       13    20
                  MIRAMONTE AVE                                COVINGTON RD                    MIRAMONTE AVE                   COVINGTON RD
                     Southbound                                   Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right              Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                           App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0    13              0       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Right Thru        Left       Peds
  04:00 PM       0     0      0      0            0       1       3    0    0         4     0     1    0     0        1     0     0    0    0                                   0          5
  04:15 PM       0     2      0      0            2       0       2    0    0         2     0     0    0     0        0     0     0    0    0                                   0          4
  04:30 PM       0     0      0      0            0       1       0    0    0         1     0     3    0     0        3     2     0    0    0                                   2          6
  04:45 PM       1     2      0      0            3       0       0    0    0         0     0     1    0     0        1     0     1    0    0                                   1          5
      Total      1     4      0      0            5       2       5    0    0         7     0     5    0     0        5     2     1    0    0                                   3         20

  05:00 PM       0     2      0      0           2        0      1      0      0            1       0      3      0      0            3       0      0      0      0            0          6
  05:15 PM       0     3      0      0           3        0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0          3
  05:30 PM       0     2      0      0           2        0      1      0      0            1       0      2      0      0            2       0      0      1      0            1          6
  05:45 PM       0     6      0      0           6        0      0      0      0            0       0      1      0      0            1       0      1      0      0            1          8                                                        Peak Hour Data
      Total      0    13      0      0          13        0      2      0      0            2       0      6      0      0            6       0      1      1      0            2         23




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                           COVINGTON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COVINGTON RD
 Grand Total     1     17     0      0          18        2       7     0      0            9       0      11     0      0          11        2       2      1     0            5         43




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Peds Right Thru
  Apprch %     5.6   94.4     0      0                 22.2    77.8     0      0                    0     100     0      0                   40      40    20      0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
    Total %    2.3   39.5     0      0       41.9       4.7    16.3     0      0       20.9         0    25.6     0      0       25.6       4.7     4.7    2.3     0       11.6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Bikes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                     MIRAMONTE AVE                             COVINGTON RD                              MIRAMONTE AVE                             COVINGTON RD
                       Southbound                                Westbound                                 Northbound                                Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
  05:00 PM        0       2     0      0        2    0    1              0      0           1       0       3      0      0           3       0       0      0      0           0          6
  05:15 PM        0       3     0      0        3    0    0              0      0           0       0       0      0      0           0       0       0      0      0           0          3
  05:30 PM        0       2     0      0        2    0    1              0      0           1       0       2      0      0           2       0       0      1      0           1          6
  05:45 PM        0       6     0      0        6    0    0              0      0           0       0       1      0      0           1       0       1      0      0           1          8
 Total Volume     0     13      0      0       13    0    2              0      0           2       0       6      0      0           6       0       1      1      0           2         23                                                          Left       Thru Right Peds
 % App. Total     0 100         0      0             0 100               0      0                   0     100      0      0                   0      50     50      0                                                                                        0       6    0     0
         PHF .000 .542 .000 .000             .542 .000 .500           .000   .000      .500      .000    .500   .000   .000      .500      .000    .250   .250   .000      .500        .719
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            13        6     19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                        Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                    Traffic Data Service
                                                                                Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                            Campbell, CA
                                                                               (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                          (408) 377-2988
                                                                               tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name            : 2AM FINAL                                                    tdsbay@cs.com                            File Name             : 2AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code            : 00000002                                                                                              Site Code             : 00000002
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date           : 5/20/2010                                                                                             Start Date            : 5/20/2010
                                                                                                                                                   Page No              :1                                                                                                      Page No               :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       433      219    652
                                                               Groups Printed- Vehicles
                     MIRAMONTE AVE                   EAST WOOD DR                    MIRAMONTE AVE                                                                                                                                     0   207          12    0
                        Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound                                                                                                  Right Thru        Left Peds
 Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                                      App. Total   Int. Total
  07:00 AM       0     18    0     0      18      1     0    1    0         2     1    66    0     0      67      0     0    0    1                                              1        88
  07:15 AM       0     31    1     0      32      1     0    1    3         5     1 138      0     0    139       0     0    0    0                                              0       176
  07:30 AM       0     48    2     0      50      0     0    2    0         2     5 118      0     0    123       0     0    0    1                                              1       176
  07:45 AM       0     54    6     0      60      0     0   12    1       13      4    92    0     0      96      0     0    0    0                                              0       169
      Total      0    151    9     0    160       2     0   16    4       22     11 414      0     0    425       0     0    0    2                                              2       609

  08:00 AM       0    74      3      0         77         0      0     18      1          19        4     84      0      0         88         0      0      0      0             0       184
  08:15 AM       0    52      0      0         52         1      0      6      0           7        0     86      0      0         86         0      0      0      0             0       145                                      Peak Hour Data
  08:30 AM       0    58      1      0         59         0      0      2      0           2        1    110      0      0        111         0      0      0      1             1       173




                                                                                                                                                                                                       1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                             Left
  08:45 AM       0    66      0      0         66         1      0      2      0           3        1    100      0      0        101         0      0      0      3             3       173




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Out
      Total      0   250      4      0        254         2      0     28      1          31        6    380      0      0        386         0      0      0      4             4       675




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   26

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EAST WOOD DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Peds Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                         1
 Grand Total     0    401   13       0        414         4      0      44      5         53       17     794     0      0        811         0      0      0       6            6     1284




                                                                                                                                                                                                   In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         In
  Apprch %       0   96.9   3.1      0                  7.5      0      83    9.4                 2.1    97.9     0      0                    0      0      0    100                                                            Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Left Peds
    Total %      0   31.2     1      0       32.2       0.3      0     3.4    0.4        4.1      1.3    61.8     0      0       63.2         0      0      0     0.5         0.5                                               Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    33
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 65
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5
                     MIRAMONTE AVE                             EAST WOOD DR                              MIRAMONTE AVE
                       Southbound                                Westbound                                 Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
  07:15 AM        0     31       1     0       32     1   0              1      3          5         1    138      0      0       139         0       0      0      0            0       176
  07:30 AM        0     48       2     0       50     0   0              2      0          2         5    118      0      0       123         0       0      0      1            1       176
  07:45 AM        0     54       6     0       60     0   0             12      1         13         4     92      0      0        96         0       0      0      0            0       169
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Left       Thru Right Peds
  08:00 AM        0     74       3     0       77     0   0             18      1         19         4     84      0      0        88         0       0      0      0            0       184                                               0     432   14     0
 Total Volume     0 207         12     0      219     1   0             33      5         39        14    432      0      0       446         0       0      0      1            1       705
 % App. Total     0 94.5       5.5     0            2.6   0           84.6   12.8                  3.1   96.9      0      0                   0       0      0    100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       240      446    686
         PHF .000 .699 .500 .000             .711 .250 .000           .458   .417      .513      .700    .783   .000   .000      .802      .000    .000   .000   .250       .250        .958
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                        Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                           Traffic Data Service
                                                                                Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                    Campbell, CA
                                                                               (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                  (408) 377-2988
                                                                               tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name       : 2AM FINAL                                                                 tdsbay@cs.com                                 File Name             : 2AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code       : 00000002                                                                                                                Site Code             : 00000002
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date      : 5/20/2010                                                                                                               Start Date            : 5/20/2010
BIKES                                                                                                                                              Page No         :1                             BIKES                                                                                      Page No               :2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                         Groups Printed- Bikes                                                                                                                                                 Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4       6     10
                  MIRAMONTE AVE                                EAST WOOD DR                    MIRAMONTE AVE
                     Southbound                                   Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right              Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                           App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0     6              0       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Right Thru        Left       Peds
  07:00 AM       0     1      0      0            1       0       0    0    0         0     0     3    0     0        3     0     0    0    0                                   0          4
  07:15 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0       0    0    0         0     0     1    0     0        1     0     0    0    0                                   0          1
  07:30 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0       0    0    0         0     4     2    0     0        6     0     0    0    0                                   0          6
  07:45 AM       0     1      0      0            1       0       0    0    0         0     3     0    0     0        3     0     0    0    0                                   0          4
      Total      0     2      0      0            2       0       0    0    0         0     7     6    0     0      13      0     0    0    0                                   0         15

  08:00 AM       0     5      0      0            5       0      0      0      0            0       2      1      0      0            3       0      0      0      0            0          8
  08:15 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      1      0      0            1       0      0      0      0            0          1
  08:30 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       1      3      0      0            4       0      0      0      0            0          4
  08:45 AM       0     2      0      0            2       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0          2                                             Peak Hour Data
      Total      0     7      0      0            7       0      0      0      0            0       3      5      0      0            8       0      0      0      0            0         15




                                                                                                                                                                                                              0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EAST WOOD DR
 Grand Total     0     9      0      0            9       0      0      0      0            0      10      11     0      0          21        0      0      0      0            0         30




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Peds Right Thru
  Apprch %       0   100      0      0                    0      0      0      0                 47.6    52.4     0      0                    0      0      0      0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
    Total %      0    30      0      0          30        0      0      0      0            0    33.3    36.7     0      0          70        0      0      0      0            0




                                                                                                                                                                                                          In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Bikes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                     MIRAMONTE AVE                             EAST WOOD DR                              MIRAMONTE AVE
                       Southbound                                Westbound                                 Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
  07:15 AM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0              0      0           0       0       1      0      0          1        0       0      0      0           0          1
  07:30 AM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0              0      0           0       4       2      0      0          6        0       0      0      0           0          6
  07:45 AM        0       1     0      0        1    0    0              0      0           0       3       0      0      0          3        0       0      0      0           0          4
  08:00 AM        0       5     0      0        5    0    0              0      0           0       2       1      0      0          3        0       0      0      0           0          8
 Total Volume     0       6     0      0        6    0    0              0      0           0       9       4      0      0         13        0       0      0      0           0         19                                               Left       Thru Right Peds
 % App. Total     0 100         0      0             0    0              0      0                69.2    30.8      0      0                   0       0      0      0                                                                             0       4    9     0
         PHF .000 .300 .000 .000             .300 .000 .000           .000   .000      .000      .563    .500   .000   .000      .542      .000    .000   .000   .000      .000        .594
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6       13    19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                        Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                    Traffic Data Service
                                                                                Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                            Campbell, CA
                                                                               (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                          (408) 377-2988
                                                                               tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name            : 2PM FINAL                                                    tdsbay@cs.com                                  File Name             : 2PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code            : 00000002                                                                                                    Site Code             : 00000002
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date           : 5/20/2010                                                                                                   Start Date            : 5/20/2010
                                                                                                                                                   Page No              :1                                                                                                            Page No               :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       305      432    737
                                                               Groups Printed- Vehicles
                     MIRAMONTE AVE                   EAST WOOD DR                    MIRAMONTE AVE                                                                                                                                     0   432              0       0
                        Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound                                                                                                  Right Thru        Left       Peds
 Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                                      App. Total   Int. Total
  04:00 PM       0     84    2     0      86      1     0    3    1         5     5    76    0     0      81      0     0    0    0                                              0       172
  04:15 PM       0     89    2     0      91      0     0    3    1         4     6    83    0     0      89      0     0    0    0                                              0       184
  04:30 PM       0     99    0     0      99      1     0    1    0         2     2    70    0     0      72      0     0    0    2                                              2       175
  04:45 PM       0     86    0     0      86      2     0    2    0         4     6    64    0     0      70      0     0    0    0                                              0       160
      Total      0    358    4     0    362       4     0    9    2       15     19 293      0     0    312       0     0    0    2                                              2       691

  05:00 PM       0   106      0      0        106         1      0      3      3           7        3     75      0      0         78         0      0      0      1             1       192
  05:15 PM       0   100      0      0        100         0      0      2      2           4        7     71      0      0         78         0      0      0      0             0       182                                      Peak Hour Data
  05:30 PM       0   114      0      0        114         0      0      3      2           5        3     74      0      0         77         0      0      0      0             0       196




                                                                                                                                                                                                       1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                             Left
  05:45 PM       0   112      0      0        112         1      0      8      1          10        6     83      0      0         89         0      0      0      0             0       211




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Out
      Total      0   432      0      0        432         2      0     16      8          26       19    303      0      0        322         0      0      0      1             1       781




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         19

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EAST WOOD DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Peds Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                         1
 Grand Total     0    790     4      0        794         6      0      25     10         41      38      596     0      0        634         0      0      0       3            3     1472




                                                                                                                                                                                                   In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               In
  Apprch %       0   99.5   0.5      0                 14.6      0      61   24.4                   6      94     0      0                    0      0      0    100                                                            Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 26
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Left Peds
    Total %      0   53.7   0.3      0       53.9       0.4      0     1.7    0.7        2.8      2.6    40.5     0      0       43.1         0      0      0     0.2         0.2                                               Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          16
                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8
                     MIRAMONTE AVE                             EAST WOOD DR                              MIRAMONTE AVE
                       Southbound                                Westbound                                 Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
  05:00 PM        0 106         0      0      106     1   0              3      3          7         3     75      0      0        78         0       0      0      1            1       192
  05:15 PM        0 100         0      0      100     0   0              2      2          4         7     71      0      0        78         0       0      0      0            0       182
  05:30 PM        0 114         0      0      114     0   0              3      2          5         3     74      0      0        77         0       0      0      0            0       196
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Left       Thru Right Peds
  05:45 PM        0 112         0      0      112     1   0              8      1         10         6     83      0      0        89         0       0      0      0            0       211                                               0     303   19     0
 Total Volume     0 432         0      0      432     2   0             16      8         26        19    303      0      0       322         0       0      0      1            1       781
 % App. Total     0 100         0      0            7.7   0           61.5   30.8                  5.9   94.1      0      0                   0       0      0    100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       448      322    770
         PHF .000 .947 .000 .000             .947 .500 .000           .500   .667      .650      .679    .913   .000   .000      .904      .000    .000   .000   .250       .250        .925
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                        Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                           Traffic Data Service
                                                                                Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                    Campbell, CA
                                                                               (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                  (408) 377-2988
                                                                               tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name        : 2PM FINAL                                                                tdsbay@cs.com                                 File Name             : 2PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code        : 00000002                                                                                                               Site Code             : 00000002
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date       : 5/20/2010                                                                                                              Start Date            : 5/20/2010
BIKES                                                                                                                                              Page No          :1                            BIKES                                                                                      Page No               :2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                         Groups Printed- Bikes                                                                                                                                                 Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6       13    19
                  MIRAMONTE AVE                                EAST WOOD DR                    MIRAMONTE AVE
                     Southbound                                   Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right              Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                           App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0    13              0       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Right Thru        Left       Peds
  04:00 PM       0     2      0      0            2       0       0    0    0         0     0     1    0     0        1     0     0    0    0                                   0          3
  04:15 PM       0     3      0      0            3       0       0    0    0         0     0     1    0     0        1     0     0    0    0                                   0          4
  04:30 PM       0     0      0      0            0       0       0    0    0         0     0     2    0     0        2     0     0    0    0                                   0          2
  04:45 PM       0     2      0      0            2       0       0    1    0         1     0     2    0     0        2     0     0    0    0                                   0          5
      Total      0     7      0      0            7       0       0    1    0         1     0     6    0     0        6     0     0    0    0                                   0         14

  05:00 PM       0     1      0      0           1        0      0      1      0            1       0      2      0      0            2       0      0      0      0            0          4
  05:15 PM       0     3      0      0           3        0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0          3
  05:30 PM       0     2      0      0           2        0      0      1      0            1       1      2      0      0            3       0      0      0      0            0          6
  05:45 PM       0     7      0      0           7        1      0      0      0            1       0      1      0      0            1       0      0      0      0            0          9                                             Peak Hour Data
      Total      0    13      0      0          13        1      0      2      0            3       1      5      0      0            6       0      0      0      0            0         22




                                                                                                                                                                                                              0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EAST WOOD DR
 Grand Total     0     20     0      0          20        1      0       3     0            4       1     11      0      0          12        0      0      0      0            0         36




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Peds Right Thru
  Apprch %       0    100     0      0                   25      0      75     0                  8.3    91.7     0      0                    0      0      0      0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
    Total %      0   55.6     0      0       55.6       2.8      0     8.3     0       11.1       2.8    30.6     0      0       33.3         0      0      0      0            0




                                                                                                                                                                                                          In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Bikes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                     MIRAMONTE AVE                             EAST WOOD DR                              MIRAMONTE AVE
                       Southbound                                Westbound                                 Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
  05:00 PM        0       1     0      0        1     0   0              1      0           1       0       2      0      0           2       0       0      0      0           0          4
  05:15 PM        0       3     0      0        3     0   0              0      0           0       0       0      0      0           0       0       0      0      0           0          3
  05:30 PM        0       2     0      0        2     0   0              1      0           1       1       2      0      0           3       0       0      0      0           0          6
  05:45 PM        0       7     0      0        7     1   0              0      0           1       0       1      0      0           1       0       0      0      0           0          9
 Total Volume     0     13      0      0       13     1   0              2      0           3       1       5      0      0           6       0       0      0      0           0         22                                               Left       Thru Right Peds
 % App. Total     0 100         0      0           33.3   0           66.7      0                16.7    83.3      0      0                   0       0      0      0                                                                             0       5    1     0
         PHF .000 .464 .000 .000             .464 .250 .000           .500   .000      .750      .250    .625   .000   .000      .500      .000    .000   .000   .000      .000        .611
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 15        6     21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Out      In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                         Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                                                                                   Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                       Campbell, CA
                                                                                  (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                     (408) 377-2988
                                                                                  tdsbay@cs.com                                                      File Name            : 3AM FINAL                                                                tdsbay@cs.com                                File Name    : 3AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                     Site Code            : 00000003                                                                                                              Site Code    : 00000003
                                                                                                                                                     Start Date           : 5/20/2010                                                                                                             Start Date   : 5/20/2010
                                                                                                                                                     Page No              :1                                                                                                                      Page No      :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GRANT RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Out       In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     956       551   1507
                                                                              Groups Printed- Vehicles
                         GRANT RD                                                                       GRANT RD                                     COVINGTON RD                                                                                  103   446            0       2
                         Southbound                                Westbound                            Northbound                                     Eastbound                                                                                 Right Thru      Left       Peds
 Start Time Right     Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds      App. Total Right Thru Left Peds             App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds        App. Total   Int. Total
  07:00 AM      12      36    0     1           49         0       3    3    0              6     0 111      18    0                129        12      0   18     1             31        215
  07:15 AM      15      74    0     0           89         0       0    0    0              0     0 160      33    0                193        10      0   34     0             44        326
  07:30 AM      22     143    0     0          165         0       0    0    0              0     0 171      54    0                225        16      0   57     1             74        464
  07:45 AM      42     163    0     1          206         0       0    0    0              0     0 214      38    0                252        54      0   50     1            105        563
      Total     91     416    0     2          509         0       3    3    0              6     0 656 143        0                799        92      0 159      3            254       1568

  08:00 AM      24     66      0      1         91         0      0      0        0           0       0    215     33      0        248        41      0     55       4        100        439
  08:15 AM      27     67      0      0         94         0      0      0        1           1       0    152     24      0        176        20      0     30       4         54        325                                                   Peak Hour Data
  08:30 AM      13     67      0      0         80         0      0      0        0           0       0    192     26      1        219        21      0     51       2         74        373




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    584


                                                                                                                                                                                                                            196




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Left
  08:45 AM      19     69      0      1         89         0      0      0        2           2       0    171     16      0        187        18      0     37       0         55        333




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Out
      Total     83    269      0      2        354         0      0      0        3           3       0    730     99      1        830       100      0    173      10        283       1470




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                       COVINGTON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Peds Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                             323
 Grand Total   174    685      0      4        863         0      3      3        3           9       0 1386       242      1     1629        192      0     332     13        537        3038




                                                                                                                                                                                                             In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       In
  Apprch %     20.2   79.4     0     0.5                   0    33.3   33.3    33.3                   0    85.1   14.9    0.1                35.8      0    61.8    2.4                                                                       Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  121




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
    Total %     5.7   22.5     0     0.1      28.4         0     0.1    0.1     0.1        0.3        0    45.6      8      0      53.6       6.3      0    10.9    0.4       17.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      261
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                        GRANT RD                                                                             GRANT RD                                COVINGTON RD
                        Southbound                                Westbound                                  Northbound                                Eastbound
 Start Time Right     Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left    Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
  07:15 AM      15      74      0      0       89    0    0               0       0           0       0     160     33      0       193        10       0     34       0        44        326
  07:30 AM      22 143           0     0      165    0    0               0       0           0       0     171     54      0       225        16       0     57       1        74        464
  07:45 AM      42 163           0     1      206    0    0               0       0           0       0     214     38      0       252        54       0     50       1       105        563
  08:00 AM      24      66      0      1       91    0    0               0       0           0       0     215     33      0       248        41       0     55       4       100        439                                                     Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   158   760    0     0
 Total Volume  103 446          0      2      551    0    0               0       0           0       0     760    158      0       918       121       0    196       6       323       1792
 % App. Total 18.7 80.9         0    0.4             0    0               0       0                   0    82.8   17.2      0                37.5       0   60.7     1.9
         PHF .613 .684 .000 .500             .669 .000 .000            .000    .000      .000      .000    .884   .731   .000      .911      .560    .000   .860   .375       .769        .796                                                       567       918   1485
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Out       In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GRANT RD
                                                                        Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                                        Traffic Data Service
                                                                                Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                                 Campbell, CA
                                                                               (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                               (408) 377-2988
                                                                               tdsbay@cs.com                                                        File Name        : 3AM FINAL                                                                            tdsbay@cs.com                                 File Name    : 3AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                    Site Code        : 00000003                                                                                                                           Site Code    : 00000003
                                                                                                                                                    Start Date       : 5/20/2010                                                                                                                          Start Date   : 5/20/2010
BIKES                                                                                                                                               Page No          :1                             BIKES                                                                                                 Page No      :2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GRANT RD
                                                                             Groups Printed- Bikes                                                                                                                                                          Out       In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              15         17    32
                     GRANT RD                                                                              GRANT RD                                 COVINGTON RD
                     Southbound                                  Westbound                                 Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds          App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds        App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds        App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2    15              0       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Right Thru        Left       Peds
  07:00 AM       1     0      0      0           1        0      0    0     0               0       0      0    0     0               0        0      0    0     0               0           1
  07:15 AM       0     3      0      0           3        0      0    0     0               0       0      8    0     0               8        3      0    0     0               3          14
  07:30 AM       1     2      0      0           3        0      0    0     0               0       0      2    0     0               2        8      0    1     0               9          14
  07:45 AM       1     9      0      0          10        0      0    0     0               0       0      1    0     0               1       18      0    0     0              18          29
      Total      3    14      0      0          17        0      0    0     0               0       0     11    0     0              11       29      0    1     0              30          58

  08:00 AM       0     1      0      0            1       0      0      0      0            0       0      1       1      0           2        3      0       2      0            5          8
  08:15 AM       0     1      0      0            1       0      0      0      0            0       0      2       1      0           3        0      0       0      0            0          4
  08:30 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      4       1      0           5        1      0       1      0            2          7
  08:45 AM       1     1      0      0            2       0      0      0      0            0       0      2       0      0           2        0      0       0      0            0          4                                                        Peak Hour Data
      Total      1     3      0      0            4       0      0      0      0            0       0      9       3      0          12        4      0       3      0            7         23




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            38


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                             COVINGTON RD
 Grand Total     4    17      0      0          21        0      0      0      0            0       0     20       3      0          23       33      0       4      0          37          81




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Peds Right Thru
  Apprch %      19    81      0      0                    0      0      0      0                    0     87     13       0                 89.2      0    10.8      0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     35
    Total %    4.9    21      0      0       25.9         0      0      0      0            0       0    24.7    3.7      0       28.4      40.7      0     4.9      0       45.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         32




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Bikes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                3
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                       GRANT RD                                                                            GRANT RD                                 COVINGTON RD
                       Southbound                                 Westbound                                Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
  07:15 AM        0       3     0      0        3    0    0              0      0           0       0       8       0      0          8        3       0       0      0          3          14
  07:30 AM        1       2     0      0        3    0    0              0      0           0       0       2       0      0          2        8       0       1      0          9          14
  07:45 AM        1       9     0      0       10    0    0              0      0           0       0       1       0      0          1       18       0       0      0         18          29
  08:00 AM        0       1     0      0        1    0    0              0      0           0       0       1       1      0          2        3       0       2      0          5           8
 Total Volume     2     15      0      0       17    0    0              0      0           0       0      12       1      0         13       32       0       3      0         35          65                                                          Left       Thru Right Peds
 % App. Total 11.8 88.2         0      0             0    0              0      0                   0    92.3     7.7      0                91.4       0     8.6      0                                                                                        1      12    0     0
         PHF .500 .417 .000 .000             .425 .000 .000           .000   .000      .000      .000    .375   .250    .000      .406      .444    .000   .375    .000      .486        .560
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              47         13    60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Out       In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GRANT RD
                                                                          Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                                                                                    Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                       Campbell, CA
                                                                                   (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                     (408) 377-2988
                                                                                   tdsbay@cs.com                                                      File Name            : 3PM FINAL                                                                tdsbay@cs.com                                File Name    : 3PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                      Site Code            : 00000003                                                                                                              Site Code    : 00000003
                                                                                                                                                      Start Date           : 5/20/2010                                                                                                             Start Date   : 5/20/2010
                                                                                                                                                      Page No              :1                                                                                                                      Page No      :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GRANT RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Out       In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      556      1223   1779
                                                                               Groups Printed- Vehicles
                          GRANT RD                                                                       GRANT RD                                     COVINGTON RD                                                                                  173 1046             0       4
                          Southbound                                Westbound                            Northbound                                     Eastbound                                                                                 Right Thru      Left       Peds
 Start Time Right      Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds      App. Total Right Thru Left Peds             App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds        App. Total   Int. Total
  04:00 PM       38     230    0     1          269         0       0    0    1              1     0 131      30    0                161        26      0   28     0             54        485
  04:15 PM       24     182    0     0          206         0       0    0    0              0     0 106      16    0                122        21      0   23     1             45        373
  04:30 PM       34     194    0     0          228         0       0    0    0              0     0 117      12    0                129        19      0   26     0             45        402
  04:45 PM       40     212    0     0          252         0       0    0    0              0     0 109      17    0                126        19      0   23     0             42        420
      Total     136     818    0     1          955         0       0    0    1              1     0 463      75    0                538        85      0 100      1            186       1680

  05:00 PM       34 261         0      1        296         0      0      0        0           0       0     90     21      0        111        23      0     23      2           48        455
  05:15 PM       37 269         0      0        306         0      0      0        0           0       0    102     29      0        131        32      0     30      0           62        499                                                  Peak Hour Data
  05:30 PM       49 254         0      1        304         0      0      0        0           0       0    117     24      0        141        32      0     32      3           67        512




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     507


                                                                                                                                                                                                                             115




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Left
  05:45 PM       53 262         0      2        317         0      0      0        0           0       0    132     27      1        160        26      0     30      0           56        533




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Out
      Total     173 1046        0       4     1223          0      0      0        0           0       0    441    101       1       543       113      0    115       5        233        1999




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                        COVINGTON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Peds Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                              233
 Grand Total     309 1864       0       5     2178          0      0      0        1           1       0     904    176      1     1081        198      0     215      6        419        3679




                                                                                                                                                                                                              In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
  Apprch %      14.2 85.6       0     0.2                   0      0      0      100                   0    83.6   16.3    0.1                47.3      0    51.3    1.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   113
    Total %      8.4 50.7       0     0.1      59.2         0      0      0        0           0       0    24.6    4.8      0      29.4       5.4      0     5.8    0.2       11.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                       274
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                         GRANT RD                                                                             GRANT RD                                COVINGTON RD
                         Southbound                                Westbound                                  Northbound                                Eastbound
 Start Time Right      Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left    Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
  05:00 PM      34 261           0     1      296    0   0                0        0           0       0     90     21      0        111        23      0     23      2           48        455
  05:15 PM      37 269           0     0      306    0   0                0        0           0       0    102     29      0        131        32      0     30      0           62        499
  05:30 PM      49 254           0     1      304    0   0                0        0           0       0    117     24      0        141        32      0     32      3           67        512
  05:45 PM      53 262           0     2      317    0   0                0        0           0       0    132     27      1        160        26      0     30      0           56        533                                                    Left Thru Right Peds
 Total Volume  173 1046          0     4     1223    0   0                0        0           0       0    441    101       1       543       113      0    115       5        233        1999                                                     101   441    0     1
 % App. Total
        PHF     .816   .972   .000   .500      .965      .000    .000   .000    .000      .000      .000    .835   .871   .250      .848      .883    .000   .898   .417       .869        .938                                                      1159       543   1702
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Out       In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GRANT RD
                                                                         Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                                      Traffic Data Service
                                                                                 Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                               Campbell, CA
                                                                                (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                             (408) 377-2988
                                                                                tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name        : 3PM FINAL                                                                           tdsbay@cs.com                                 File Name    : 3PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                    Site Code        : 00000003                                                                                                                          Site Code    : 00000003
                                                                                                                                                    Start Date       : 5/20/2010                                                                                                                         Start Date   : 5/20/2010
BIKES                                                                                                                                               Page No          :1                            BIKES                                                                                                 Page No      :2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GRANT RD
                                                                              Groups Printed- Bikes                                                                                                                                                        Out       In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             13         14    27
                     GRANT RD                                                                               GRANT RD                                COVINGTON RD
                     Southbound                                   Westbound                                 Northbound                                Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds           App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1    13              0       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Right Thru        Left       Peds
  04:00 PM       0      0      0      0           0        0      0    0     0               0       0      0    1     0              1        0      0    0     0               0          1
  04:15 PM       0      5      0      0           5        0      0    0     0               0       0      6    3     0              9        0      0    0     0               0         14
  04:30 PM       0      1      0      0           1        0      0    0     0               0       0      2    0     0              2        0      0    2     0               2          5
  04:45 PM       0      4      0      0           4        0      0    0     0               0       0      3    0     0              3        0      0    0     0               0          7
      Total      0     10      0      0          10        0      0    0     0               0       0     11    4     0             15        0      0    2     0               2         27

  05:00 PM       1      3      0      0           4        0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0          4
  05:15 PM       0      3      0      0           3        0      0      0      0            0       0      1      0      0            1       2      0      0      0            2          6
  05:30 PM       2      2      0      0           4        0      0      0      0            0       0      1      2      0            3       0      0      1      0            1          8
  05:45 PM       0      3      0      0           3        0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0          3                                                        Peak Hour Data
      Total      3     11      0      0          14        0      0      0      0            0       0      2      2      0            4       2      0      1      0            3         21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                            COVINGTON RD
 Grand Total      3     21     0      0          24        0      0      0      0            0       0     13       6     0          19        2      0       3     0            5         48




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Peds Right Thru
  Apprch %     12.5   87.5     0      0                    0      0      0      0                    0    68.4   31.6     0                   40      0      60     0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2
    Total %     6.2   43.8     0      0          50        0      0      0      0            0       0    27.1   12.5     0       39.6       4.2      0     6.2     0       10.4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Peak Hour Begins at 04:15 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Bikes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                        GRANT RD                                                                            GRANT RD                                COVINGTON RD
                        Southbound                                 Westbound                                Northbound                                Eastbound
 Start Time Right     Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:15 PM
  04:15 PM        0       5     0      0        5    0    0               0      0           0       0       6      3      0          9        0       0      0      0           0         14
  04:30 PM        0       1     0      0        1    0    0               0      0           0       0       2      0      0          2        0       0      2      0           2          5
  04:45 PM        0       4     0      0        4    0    0               0      0           0       0       3      0      0          3        0       0      0      0           0          7
  05:00 PM        1       3     0      0        4    0    0               0      0           0       0       0      0      0          0        0       0      0      0           0          4
 Total Volume     1     13      0      0       14    0    0               0      0           0       0      11      3      0         14        0       0      2      0           2         30                                                          Left       Thru Right Peds
 % App. Total  7.1 92.9         0      0             0    0               0      0                   0    78.6   21.4      0                   0       0    100      0                                                                                        3      11    0     0
         PHF .250 .650 .000 .000             .700 .000 .000            .000   .000      .000      .000    .458   .250   .000      .389      .000    .000   .250   .000      .250        .536
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             13         14    27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Out       In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GRANT RD
                                                                        Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                              Traffic Data Service
                                                                                Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                      Campbell, CA
                                                                               (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                    (408) 377-2988
                                                                               tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name        : 11AM FINAL                                                                 tdsbay@cs.com                                         File Name               : 11AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code        : 00000011                                                                                                                         Site Code               : 00000011
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date       : 5/20/2010                                                                                                                        Start Date              : 5/20/2010
                                                                                                                                                   Page No          :1                                                                                                                                 Page No                 :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         THATCHER DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Out           In     Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0       3       3
                                                                         Groups Printed- Vehicles
                      THATCHER DR                              COVINGTON RD                                                                         COVINGTON RD                                                                                 0     0                     0       3
                        Southbound                                Westbound                       Northbound                                          Eastbound                                                                              Right Thru               Left       Peds
 Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                 App. Total   Right    Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
  07:00 AM       0      0    0     0              0       0       1    0    1         2     0     0    0     1                        1       0       1    0     0              1           4
  07:15 AM       0      0    0     1              1       0       0    0    0         0     0     0    0     2                        2       0       3    0     0              3           6
  07:30 AM       0      0    0     0              0       0       1    0    1         2     0     0    0     1                        1       0      10    0     0             10          13
  07:45 AM       0      0    0     2              2       0       1    0    3         4     0     0    0     1                        1       0      16    0     0             16          23
      Total      0      0    0     3              3       0       3    0    5         8     0     0    0     5                        5       0      30    0     0             30          46

  08:00 AM       0     0      0      1            1       0      0      0      2            2       0      0      0      8           8        0       3      0      0            3         14
  08:15 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0      1      0      4            5       0      0      0      1           1        0       1      0      0            1          7                                               Peak Hour Data
  08:30 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0      1      0      1            2       0      0      0      2           2        0       1      1      0            2          6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   33


                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Left
  08:45 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      3           3        0       0      1      0            1          4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Out
      Total      0     0      0      1            1       0      2      0      7            9       0      0      0     14          14        0       5      2      0            7         31




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           30
                                                                                                                                                                                                    COVINGTON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            COVINGTON RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Peds Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                            30
 Grand Total     0     0      0       4           4       0       5     0      12         17        0      0      0      19         19        0       35      2     0          37          77




                                                                                                                                                                                                          In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 In
  Apprch %       0     0      0    100                    0    29.4     0    70.6                   0      0      0     100                   0     94.6    5.4     0                                                                     Peak Hour Begins at 07:30 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Left Peds
    Total %      0     0      0     5.2        5.2        0     6.5     0    15.6      22.1         0      0      0    24.7      24.7         0     45.5    2.6     0       48.1                                                          Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10
                     THATCHER DR                               COVINGTON RD                                                                         COVINGTON RD
                      Southbound                                 Westbound                                 Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
  07:30 AM        0       0     0      0        0    0    1              0      1          2        0       0      0      1          1        0       10      0      0         10          13
  07:45 AM        0       0     0      2        2    0    1              0      3          4        0       0      0      1          1        0       16      0      0         16          23
  08:00 AM        0       0     0      1        1    0    0              0      2          2        0       0      0      8          8        0        3      0      0          3          14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Left           Thru Right Peds
  08:15 AM        0       0     0      0        0    0    1              0      4          5        0       0      0      1          1        0        1      0      0          1           7                                                        0           0    0    11
 Total Volume     0       0     0      3        3    0    3              0     10         13        0       0      0     11         11        0       30      0      0         30          57
 % App. Total     0       0     0 100                0 23.1              0   76.9                   0       0      0    100                   0      100      0      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0            11            11
         PHF .000 .000 .000 .375             .375 .000 .750           .000   .625      .650      .000    .000   .000   .344      .344      .000     .469   .000   .000      .469        .620
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Out              In              Total
                                                                        Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                               Traffic Data Service
                                                                                Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                       Campbell, CA
                                                                               (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                     (408) 377-2988
                                                                               tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name        : 11PM FINAL                                                                  tdsbay@cs.com                                         File Name              : 11PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code        : 00000011                                                                                                                          Site Code              : 00000011
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date       : 5/20/2010                                                                                                                         Start Date             : 5/20/2010
                                                                                                                                                   Page No          :1                                                                                                                                  Page No                :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          THATCHER DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Out           In     Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3       3       6
                                                                         Groups Printed- Vehicles
                      THATCHER DR                              COVINGTON RD                                                                         COVINGTON RD                                                                                  0     3                     0       0
                        Southbound                                Westbound                       Northbound                                          Eastbound                                                                               Right Thru               Left       Peds
 Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                 App. Total   Right    Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
  04:00 PM       0      0    0     0              0       0       0    0    1         1     0     0    0     1                        1       0       0    0     0               0          2
  04:15 PM       0      2    0     0              2       0       0    0    0         0     0     0    0     0                        0       0       0    0     0               0          2
  04:30 PM       0      0    0     0              0       0       0    1    0         1     0     0    0     0                        0       0       0    0     0               0          1
  04:45 PM       0      2    0     0              2       0       0    0    2         2     0     0    0     0                        0       0       0    0     1               1          5
      Total      0      4    0     0              4       0       0    1    3         4     0     0    0     1                        1       0       0    0     1               1         10

  05:00 PM       0     1      0      0            1       0      0      0      0            0       0      1      0      0            1       0       0      1      0            1           3
  05:15 PM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0       0      0      2            2           2                                               Peak Hour Data
  05:30 PM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      1      0      0            1       0       0      0      1            1           2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5


                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Left
  05:45 PM       0     1      0      0            1       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0       0      0      0            0           1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Out
      Total      0     2      0      0            2       0      0      0      0            0       0      2      0      0            2       0       0      1      3            4           8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                    COVINGTON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            COVINGTON RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Peds Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                             5
 Grand Total     0      6     0      0            6       0      0       1      3           4       0       2     0       1           3       0       0       1      4           5         18




                                                                                                                                                                                                          In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 In
  Apprch %       0    100     0      0                    0      0     25     75                    0    66.7     0    33.3                   0       0     20     80                                                                      Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
    Total %      0   33.3     0      0       33.3         0      0     5.6   16.7      22.2         0    11.1     0     5.6      16.7         0       0     5.6   22.2      27.8                                                           Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2
                     THATCHER DR                               COVINGTON RD                                                                         COVINGTON RD
                      Southbound                                 Westbound                                 Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
  04:45 PM        0       2     0      0        2    0    0              0      2           2       0       0      0      0           0       0        0      0      1           1          5
  05:00 PM        0       1     0      0        1    0    0              0      0           0       0       1      0      0           1       0        0      1      0           1          3
  05:15 PM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0              0      0           0       0       0      0      0           0       0        0      0      2           2          2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Left           Thru Right Peds
  05:30 PM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0              0      0           0       0       1      0      0           1       0        0      0      1           1          2                                                         0           2    0     0
 Total Volume     0       3     0      0        3    0    0              0      2           2       0       2      0      0           2       0        0      1      4           5         12
 % App. Total     0 100         0      0             0    0              0    100                   0     100      0      0                   0        0     20     80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3            2              5
         PHF .000 .375 .000 .000             .375 .000 .000           .000   .250      .250      .000    .500   .000   .000      .500      .000     .000   .250   .500      .625        .600
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Out              In              Total
                                                                        Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                              Traffic Data Service
                                                                                Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                      Campbell, CA
                                                                               (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                    (408) 377-2988
                                                                               tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name        : 12AM FINAL                                                                 tdsbay@cs.com                                      File Name               : 12AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code        : 00000012                                                                                                                      Site Code               : 00000012
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date       : 5/20/2010                                                                                                                     Start Date              : 5/20/2010
                                                                                                                                                   Page No          :1                                                                                                                              Page No                 :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HAYMAN PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Out              In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0          4      4
                                                                         Groups Printed- Vehicles
                       HAYMAN PL                               COVINGTON RD                      HAYMAN PL                                          COVINGTON RD                                                                                 0     1                  0       3
                        Southbound                                Westbound                       Northbound                                          Eastbound                                                                              Right Thru            Left       Peds
 Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                 App. Total   Right    Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
  07:00 AM       0      0    0     0              0       0       0    0    0         0     1     0    0     0                        1       0       1    0     0              1           2
  07:15 AM       0      0    0     0              0       0       1    0    0         1     0     0    0     0                        0       0       3    0     0              3           4
  07:30 AM       0      0    0     1              1       0       0    0    0         0     0     0    0     0                        0       0       9    0     0              9          10
  07:45 AM       0      1    0     1              2       0       2    0    1         3     0     0    0     4                        4       3      20    0     0             23          32
      Total      0      1    0     2              3       0       3    0    1         4     1     0    0     4                        5       3      33    0     0             36          48

  08:00 AM       0     0      0      1            1       0      0      1      5            6       0      0      0      4           4        0       6      0      0           6          17
  08:15 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      1           1        0       0      0      0           0           1                                               Peak Hour Data
  08:30 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0      1      0      0            1       0      0      0      2           2        0       4      0      0           4           7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   44


                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Left
  08:45 AM       0     0      0      1            1       0      1      0      0            1       0      0      0      4           4        0       1      0      0           1           7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Out
      Total      0     0      0      2            2       0      2      1      5            8       0      0      0     11          11        0      11      0      0          11          32




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        38
                                                                                                                                                                                                    COVINGTON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         COVINGTON RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Peds Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                            41
 Grand Total     0      1     0      4            5       0       5      1      6         12        1      0      0      15         16        3       44     0      0          47          80




                                                                                                                                                                                                          In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              In
  Apprch %       0     20     0     80                    0    41.7    8.3     50                 6.2      0      0    93.8                 6.4     93.6     0      0                                                                     Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Left Peds
    Total %      0    1.2     0      5         6.2        0     6.2    1.2    7.5         15      1.2      0      0    18.8         20      3.8       55     0      0       58.8                                                          Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                                                                                                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       48
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6
                       HAYMAN PL                               COVINGTON RD                                HAYMAN PL                                COVINGTON RD
                       Southbound                                Westbound                                 Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
  07:15 AM        0       0     0      0        0    0    1              0      0          1        0       0      0      0           0        0       3      0      0          3           4
  07:30 AM        0       0     0      1        1    0    0              0      0          0        0       0      0      0           0        0       9      0      0          9          10
  07:45 AM        0       1     0      1        2    0    2              0      1          3        0       0      0      4           4        3      20      0      0         23          32
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Left           Thru Right Peds
  08:00 AM        0       0     0      1        1    0    0              1      5          6        0       0      0      4           4        0       6      0      0          6          17                                                        0           0    0     8
 Total Volume     0       1     0      3        4    0    3              1      6         10        0       0      0      8           8        3      38      0      0         41          63
 % App. Total     0     25      0     75             0   30             10     60                   0       0      0    100                  7.3    92.7      0      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5          8     13
         PHF .000 .250 .000 .750             .500 .000 .375           .250   .300      .417      .000    .000   .000   .500      .500      .250     .475   .000   .000      .446        .492
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Out              In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HAYMAN PL
                                                                         Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                               Traffic Data Service
                                                                                 Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                       Campbell, CA
                                                                                (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                     (408) 377-2988
                                                                                tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name        : 12PM FINAL                                                                  tdsbay@cs.com                                      File Name              : 12PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                    Site Code        : 00000012                                                                                                                       Site Code              : 00000012
                                                                                                                                                    Start Date       : 5/20/2010                                                                                                                      Start Date             : 5/20/2010
                                                                                                                                                    Page No          :1                                                                                                                               Page No                :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HAYMAN PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Out              In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0          2      2
                                                                          Groups Printed- Vehicles
                        HAYMAN PL                               COVINGTON RD                      HAYMAN PL                                          COVINGTON RD                                                                                  0     0                  0       2
                         Southbound                                Westbound                       Northbound                                          Eastbound                                                                               Right Thru            Left       Peds
 Start Time Right     Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                 App. Total   Right    Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
  04:00 PM       1       0    1     1              3       0       1    2    0         3     2     0    3     2                       7        0       1    1     0               2         15
  04:15 PM       0       0    0     2              2       0       1    0    0         1     0     0    2     1                       3        0       0    0     1               1          7
  04:30 PM       0       0    0     0              0       0       2    0    0         2     0     0    0     0                       0        0       0    0     0               0          2
  04:45 PM       0       0    0     0              0       0       0    0    1         1     0     0    0     1                       1        0       1    0     0               1          3
      Total      1       0    1     3              5       0       4    2    1         7     2     0    5     4                      11        0       2    1     1               4         27

  05:00 PM       0      0      0      2            2       0      3      0      0            3       0      0      0      3           3        0       0      0      1            1          9
  05:15 PM       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       2      0      0      5           7        0       1      0      2            3         10                                                Peak Hour Data
  05:30 PM       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      1            1       0      0      0      2           2        0       1      0      0            1          4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    11


                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Left
  05:45 PM       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      2            2       0      0      0      4           4        0       3      0      0            3          9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Out
      Total      0      0      0      2            2       0      3      0      3            6       2      0      0     14          16        0       5      0      3            8         32




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                     COVINGTON RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COVINGTON RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Peds Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                              8
 Grand Total      1     0       1      5           7       0       7      2      4         13        4      0       5     18         27        0        7      1      4         12          59




                                                                                                                                                                                                           In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               In
  Apprch %     14.3     0    14.3   71.4                   0    53.8   15.4   30.8                14.8      0    18.5   66.7                   0     58.3    8.3   33.3                                                                     Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6
    Total %     1.7     0     1.7    8.5      11.9         0    11.9    3.4    6.8         22      6.8      0     8.5   30.5      45.8         0     11.9    1.7    6.8      20.3                                                           Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3
                        HAYMAN PL                               COVINGTON RD                                HAYMAN PL                                COVINGTON RD
                        Southbound                                Westbound                                 Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right     Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
  05:00 PM        0       0     0      2        2    0    3               0      0           3       0       0      0      3          3        0        0      0      1           1          9
  05:15 PM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0               0      0           0       2       0      0      5          7        0        1      0      2           3         10
  05:30 PM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0               0      1           1       0       0      0      2          2        0        1      0      0           1          4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Left           Thru Right Peds
  05:45 PM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0               0      2           2       0       0      0      4          4        0        3      0      0           3          9                                                         0           0    2    14
 Total Volume     0       0     0      2        2    0    3               0      3           6       2       0      0     14         16        0        5      0      3           8         32
 % App. Total     0       0     0 100                0   50               0     50                12.5       0      0   87.5                   0     62.5      0   37.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0          16    16
         PHF .000 .000 .000 .250             .250 .000 .250            .000   .375      .500      .250    .000   .000   .700      .571      .000     .417   .000   .375      .667        .800
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Out              In    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HAYMAN PL
                                                                        Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                      Traffic Data Service
                                                                                Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                              Campbell, CA
                                                                               (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                            (408) 377-2988
                                                                               tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name        : 13AM FINAL                                                         tdsbay@cs.com                                      File Name    : 13AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code        : 00000013                                                                                                              Site Code    : 00000013
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date       : 5/20/2010                                                                                                             Start Date   : 5/20/2010
                                                                                                                                                   Page No          :1                                                                                                                      Page No      :2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WALKWAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Out             In   Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3         0     3
                                                                         Groups Printed- Vehicles
                        WALKWAY                                    MUIR WY                        WALKWAY                                              MUIR WY                                                                           0     0                  0       0
                        Southbound                                Westbound                       Northbound                                          Eastbound                                                                      Right Thru            Left       Peds
 Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                 App. Total   Right    Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
  07:00 AM       0      0    0     0              0       0       0    1    0         1     0     0    0     0                        0       0       0    0     0               0           1
  07:15 AM       0      0    0     0              0       0       0    0    0         0     0     0    0     0                        0       0       0    0     0               0           0
  07:30 AM       0      0    0     0              0       0       0    0    0         0     0     1    0     0                        1       0       0    0     0               0           1
  07:45 AM       0      0    0     0              0       0       0    0    2         2     0     1    0     0                        1       0       0    0     0               0           3
      Total      0      0    0     0              0       0       0    1    2         3     0     2    0     0                        2       0       0    0     0               0           5

  08:00 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0      3            3       0      2      0      0            2       0       0      0      3            3          8
  08:15 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0       0      0      0            0          0                                       Peak Hour Data
  08:30 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0      1            1       0      0      0      0            0       0       0      0      1            1          2




                                                                                                                                                                                                         4


                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Right Thru
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                               Left
  08:45 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0       0      0      0            0          0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Out
      Total      0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0      4            4       0      2      0      0            2       0       0      0      4            4         10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       North




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MUIR WY
                                                                                                                                                                                                   MUIR WY

                                                                                                                                                                                                          4
 Grand Total     0     0      0      0            0       0      0       1      6           7       0       4     0      0            4       0       0      0       4           4         15




                                                                                                                                                                                                       In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 In
  Apprch %       0     0      0      0                    0      0    14.3   85.7                   0     100     0      0                    0       0      0    100                                                             Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Left Peds



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6
    Total %      0     0      0      0            0       0      0     6.7     40      46.7         0    26.7     0      0       26.7         0       0      0    26.7      26.7                                                  Vehicles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6
                       WALKWAY                                    MUIR WY                                  WALKWAY                                      MUIR WY
                       Southbound                                Westbound                                 Northbound                                  Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
  07:45 AM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0              0      2           2       0       1      0      0           1       0        0      0      0           0          3
  08:00 AM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0              0      3           3       0       2      0      0           2       0        0      0      3           3          8
  08:15 AM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0              0      0           0       0       0      0      0           0       0        0      0      0           0          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Left           Thru Right Peds
  08:30 AM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0              0      1           1       0       0      0      0           0       0        0      0      1           1          2                                                0           3    0     0
 Total Volume     0       0     0      0        0    0    0              0      6           6       0       3      0      0           3       0        0      0      4           4         13
 % App. Total     0       0     0      0             0    0              0    100                   0     100      0      0                   0        0      0    100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0         3     3
         PHF .000 .000 .000 .000             .000 .000 .000           .000   .500      .500      .000    .375   .000   .000      .375      .000     .000   .000   .333      .333        .406
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Out             In   Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WALKWAY
                                                                       Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                                                                                Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                                                        Campbell, CA
                                                                               (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                                                      (408) 377-2988
                                                                               tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name        : 13PM FINAL                                                                                                   tdsbay@cs.com                                                        File Name        : 14AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                   Site Code        : 00000013                                                                                                                                                                          Site Code        : 00000014
                                                                                                                                                   Start Date       : 5/20/2010                                                                                                                                                                         Start Date       : 5/20/2010
                                                                                                                                                   Page No          :1                                                                                                                                                                                  Page No          :1


                                                                         Groups Printed- Vehicles                                                                                                                                                                  Groups Printed- Vehicles
                        WALKWAY                                    MUIR WY                        WALKWAY                                               MUIR WY                                                         CROSSING BRIDGE                   ALTAMEAD DR                   CROSSING BRIDGE                   ALTAMEAD DR
                        Southbound                                Westbound                       Northbound                                           Eastbound                                                            Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                 App. Total   Right    Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total    Start Time Right     Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                                       App. Total   Int. Total
  04:00 PM       0      0    0     0              0       0       1    0    0         1     0     0    0     0                        0       0        0    0    0               0           1       07:00 AM       1       2    0     0        3     0     0    0    1         1     0     0    0     0        0     0     0    0    3                                               3          7
  04:15 PM       0      0    0     0              0       0       0    0    0         0     0     0    0     0                        0       0        0    0    0               0           0       07:15 AM       0       1    0     0        1     0     0    0    3         3     0     1    0     0        1     0     0    0    1                                               1          6
  04:30 PM       0      0    0     0              0       0       0    0    0         0     0     0    0     0                        0       0        0    0    0               0           0       07:30 AM       0       0    0     0        0     0     0    0    1         1     0     4    0     0        4     0     0    0    0                                               0          5
  04:45 PM       0      0    0     0              0       0       0    0    0         0     0     0    0     0                        0       0        0    0    0               0           0       07:45 AM       0      12    0     0      12      0     0    0    4         4     0     7    0     0        7     0     0    0    3                                               3         26
      Total      0      0    0     0              0       0       1    0    0         1     0     0    0     0                        0       0        0    0    0               0           1           Total      1      15    0     0      16      0     0    0    9         9     0    12    0     0      12      0     0    0    7                                               7         44

  05:00 PM       0     1      0      0            1       0      0      0      1            1       0      0      0      0            0       0       0      0      4            4          6        08:00 AM       0       1     0      0            1       0      0      0     14          14        0       4      0      0            4       0       0      0      0            0         19
  05:15 PM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0      2            2       0      0      0      0            0       0       0      0      1            1          3        08:15 AM       0       0     0      0            0       0      0      0      1           1        0       0      0      0            0       0       0      0      0            0          1
  05:30 PM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0       1      0      0            1          1        08:30 AM       0       0     0      0            0       0      0      0      1           1        0       0      0      0            0       0       0      0      0            0          1
  05:45 PM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0      1            1       0      0      0      0            0       0       0      0      0            0          1        08:45 AM       0       0     0      0            0       0      0      0      1           1        0       0      0      0            0       0       0      0      0            0          1
      Total      0     1      0      0            1       0      0      0      4            4       0      0      0      0            0       0       1      0      5            6         11            Total      0       1     0      0            1       0      0      0     17          17        0       4      0      0            4       0       0      0      0            0         22

 Grand Total     0      1     0      0            1       0       1     0       4           5       0      0      0      0            0       0        1     0       5           6         12       Grand Total     1      16     0      0          17        0      0      0      26         26        0       16     0      0          16        0       0      0       7           7         66
  Apprch %       0   100      0      0                    0      20     0      80                   0      0      0      0                    0     16.7     0    83.3                               Apprch %     5.9    94.1     0      0                    0      0      0     100                   0      100     0      0                    0       0      0    100
    Total %      0    8.3     0      0         8.3        0     8.3     0    33.3      41.7         0      0      0      0            0       0      8.3     0    41.7         50                      Total %    1.5    24.2     0      0       25.8         0      0      0    39.4      39.4         0     24.2     0      0       24.2         0       0      0    10.6      10.6




                       WALKWAY                                    MUIR WY                                  WALKWAY                                      MUIR WY                                                         CROSSING BRIDGE                            ALTAMEAD DR                               CROSSING BRIDGE                             ALTAMEAD DR
                       Southbound                                Westbound                                 Northbound                                  Eastbound                                                           Southbound                               Westbound                                   Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total    Start Time Right     Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 04:30 PM - Peak 1 of 1                                                                                                                                         Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                                                                                                                                                                     07:15 AM        0       1     0      0        1    0    0               0      3          3        0        1      0      0          1        0        0      0      1           1          6
                                                                                                                                                                                                     07:30 AM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0               0      1          1        0        4      0      0          4        0        0      0      0           0          5
                                                                                                                                                                                                     07:45 AM        0     12      0      0       12    0    0               0      4          4        0        7      0      0          7        0        0      0      3           3         26
                                                                                                                                                                                                     08:00 AM        0       1     0      0        1    0    0               0     14         14        0        4      0      0          4        0        0      0      0           0         19
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total Volume     0     14      0      0       14    0    0               0     22         22        0       16      0      0         16        0        0      0      4           4         56
                                                                                                                                                                                                    % App. Total     0 100         0      0             0    0               0    100                   0      100      0      0                   0        0      0    100
                                                                                                                                                                                                            PHF .000 .292 .000 .000             .292 .000 .000            .000   .393      .393      .000     .571   .000   .000      .571      .000     .000   .000   .333      .333        .538
                                         Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                               Traffic Data Service
                                                 Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                       Campbell, CA
                                                (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                     (408) 377-2988
                                                tdsbay@cs.com                                  File Name            : 14AM FINAL                                                                                   tdsbay@cs.com                                                        File Name        : 14PM FINAL
                                                                                               Site Code            : 00000014                                                                                                                                                          Site Code        : 00000014
                                                                                               Start Date           : 5/20/2010                                                                                                                                                         Start Date       : 5/20/2010
                                                                                               Page No              :2                                                                                                                                                                  Page No          :1
                                                CROSSING BRIDGE
                                               Out     In     Total
                                                 16       14     30
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Groups Printed- Vehicles
                                                0    14              0       0                                                                          CROSSING BRIDGE                   ALTAMEAD DR                   CROSSING BRIDGE                   ALTAMEAD DR
                                            Right Thru        Left       Peds                                                                               Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound
                                                                                                                                    Start Time Right     Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                                       App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                                     04:00 PM       0       0    0     0        0     0     1    0    2         3     0     0    0     0        0     0     0    0    1                                               1          4
                                                                                                                                     04:15 PM       0       1    0     0        1     0     2    0    2         4     0     0    0     0        0     0     0    0    1                                               1          6
                                                                                                                                     04:30 PM       0       0    0     0        0     0     1    0    0         1     0     0    0     0        0     0     2    0    0                                               2          3
                                                                                                                                     04:45 PM       0       1    0     0        1     0     2    0    1         3     0     0    0     0        0     0     0    0    0                                               0          4
                                                                                                                                         Total      0       2    0     0        2     0     6    0    5       11      0     0    0     0        0     0     2    0    2                                               4         17

                                                                                                                                     05:00 PM       0       0     0      0            0       0      2      0      0            2       0       0      0      0            0       0       0      0      0           0           2
                                           Peak Hour Data                                                                            05:15 PM       0       0     0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0       0      0      0            0       0       2      0      5           7           7
                                                                                                                                     05:30 PM       0       0     0      0            0       0      4      0      2            6       0       0      0      0            0       0       0      0     12          12          18
                  4


                          0




                                                                                 Right Thru
              Total




                      Left




                                                                                                                                     05:45 PM       0       1     0      0            1       0      1      0      0            1       0       0      0      0            0       0       0      0      6           6           8




                                                                                                      Out
                                                                                                                                         Total      0       1     0      0            1       0      7      0      2            9       0       0      0      0            0       0       2      0     23          25          35




                                                                                     0


                                                                                                 0
  ALTAMEAD DR




                                                                                                 ALTAMEAD DR
                                                          North
                                     0
                      Peds Right Thru
          4




                                                                                                                                    Grand Total     0       3     0      0            3       0     13      0       7         20        0       0      0      0            0       0        4     0      25         29          52
       In




                                                                                           0



                                                                                                      In
                                         Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM                                                                Apprch %       0    100      0      0                    0     65      0      35                   0       0      0      0                    0     13.8     0    86.2




                                                                                                        22
                               0




                                                                                 Left Peds
                                         Vehicles
                                                                                                                                       Total %      0     5.8     0      0         5.8        0     25      0    13.5      38.5         0       0      0      0            0       0      7.7     0    48.1      55.8




                                                                                     0
    0
Out




                                                                                                            Total
                         4




                                                                                                               22
                                                                                        22                                                              CROSSING BRIDGE                            ALTAMEAD DR                               CROSSING BRIDGE                             ALTAMEAD DR
                                                                                                                                                           Southbound                               Westbound                                   Northbound                                 Eastbound
                                                                                                                                    Start Time Right     Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

                                                                                                                                   Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
                                                                                                                                   Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                                                                                                     05:00 PM        0       0     0      0        0    0    2               0      0           2       0        0      0      0           0       0        0      0      0          0           2
                                                                                                                                     05:15 PM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0               0      0           0       0        0      0      0           0       0        2      0      5          7           7
                                                                                                                                     05:30 PM        0       0     0      0        0    0    4               0      2           6       0        0      0      0           0       0        0      0     12         12          18
                                             Left       Thru Right Peds
                                                    0      16    0     0                                                             05:45 PM        0       1     0      0        1    0    1               0      0           1       0        0      0      0           0       0        0      0      6          6           8
                                                                                                                                    Total Volume     0       1     0      0        1    0    7               0      2           9       0        0      0      0           0       0        2      0     23         25          35
                                                                                                                                    % App. Total     0 100         0      0             0 77.8               0   22.2                   0        0      0      0                   0        8      0     92
                                                 14       16     30
                                                                                                                                            PHF .000 .250 .000 .000             .250 .000 .438            .000   .250      .375      .000     .000   .000   .000      .000      .000     .250   .000   .479      .521        .486
                                               Out     In     Total
                                                CROSSING BRIDGE
                                         Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                              Traffic Data Service
                                                 Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                        Campbell, CA
                                                (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                      (408) 377-2988
                                                tdsbay@cs.com                                  File Name            : 14PM FINAL                                                                                    tdsbay@cs.com                                                      File Name        : 15AM FINAL
                                                                                               Site Code            : 00000014                                                                                                                                                         Site Code        : 00000015
                                                                                               Start Date           : 5/20/2010                                                                                                                                                        Start Date       : 5/20/2010
                                                                                               Page No              :2                                                                                                                                                                 Page No          :1
                                                CROSSING BRIDGE
                                               Out     In     Total
                                                   0      1       1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Groups Printed- Vehicles
                                                0     1              0       0                                                                           THATCHER DR                                                                    THATCHER DR
                                            Right Thru        Left       Peds                                                                              Southbound                                Westbound                            Northbound                                       Eastbound
                                                                                                                                    Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds      App. Total Right Thru Left Peds             App. Total   Right    Thru  Left Peds      App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                                     07:00 AM       0      0    0     0              0       0       0    0    4              4     0     0    0     0                    0       0       0     0     0              0          4
                                                                                                                                     07:15 AM       0      0    0     0              0       0       0    0    0              0     0     0    0     0                    0       0       0     0     1              1          1
                                                                                                                                     07:30 AM       0      1    0     0              1       0       0    0    0              0     0     0    0     0                    0       0       0     0     2              2          3
                                                                                                                                     07:45 AM       0      0    0     0              0       0       0    0    2              2     0     0    0     0                    0       0       0     0     0              0          2
                                                                                                                                         Total      0      1    0     0              1       0       0    0    6              6     0     0    0     0                    0       0       0     0     3              3         10

                                                                                                                                     08:00 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0        0           0       0      1      0      0            1       0       0      0      1            1           2
                                           Peak Hour Data                                                                            08:15 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0        1           1       0      0      0      0            0       0       0      0      2            2           3
                                                                                                                                     08:30 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0        0           0       0      2      0      0            2       0       0      0      1            1           3
                 32


                          0




                                                                                 Right Thru
              Total




                      Left




                                                                                                                                     08:45 AM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0        0           0       0      0      0      0            0       0       0      0      0            0           0




                                                                                                      Out
                                                                                                                                         Total      0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0        1           1       0      3      0      0            3       0       0      0      4            4           8




                                                                                     0


                                                                                                 2
  ALTAMEAD DR




                                                                                                 ALTAMEAD DR
                                                          North
                                     2
                      Peds Right Thru
         25




                                                                                                                                    Grand Total     0      1     0      0            1       0      0      0        7           7       0       3     0      0            3       0       0      0       7           7         18
       In




                                                                                           7



                                                                                                      In
                                         Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM                                                                Apprch %       0   100      0      0                    0      0      0      100                   0     100     0      0                    0       0      0    100
                               0




                                                                                 Left Peds



                                                                                                         9
                                         Vehicles
                                                                                                                                       Total %      0    5.6     0      0         5.6        0      0      0     38.9      38.9         0    16.7     0      0       16.7         0       0      0    38.9      38.9




                                                                                     0
    7
Out




                                                                                                            Total
                        23




                                                                                                               11
                                                                                         2                                                              THATCHER DR                                                                          THATCHER DR
                                                                                                                                                         Southbound                                 Westbound                                 Northbound                                   Eastbound
                                                                                                                                    Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left    Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

                                                                                                                                   Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
                                                                                                                                   Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
                                                                                                                                     07:00 AM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0              0       4           4       0       0      0      0           0       0        0      0      0           0          4
                                                                                                                                     07:15 AM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0              0       0           0       0       0      0      0           0       0        0      0      1           1          1
                                                                                                                                     07:30 AM        0       1     0      0        1    0    0              0       0           0       0       0      0      0           0       0        0      0      2           2          3
                                             Left       Thru Right Peds
                                                    0       0    0     0                                                             07:45 AM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0              0       2           2       0       0      0      0           0       0        0      0      0           0          2
                                                                                                                                    Total Volume     0       1     0      0        1    0    0              0       6           6       0       0      0      0           0       0        0      0      3           3         10
                                                                                                                                    % App. Total     0 100         0      0             0    0              0     100                   0       0      0      0                   0        0      0    100
                                                   1      0       1
                                                                                                                                            PHF .000 .250 .000 .000             .250 .000 .000           .000    .375      .375      .000    .000   .000   .000      .000      .000     .000   .000   .375      .375        .625
                                               Out     In     Total
                                                CROSSING BRIDGE
                             Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                          Traffic Data Service
                                     Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                    Campbell, CA
                                    (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                  (408) 377-2988
                                    tdsbay@cs.com                                      File Name    : 15AM FINAL                                                                                    tdsbay@cs.com                                                      File Name        : 15PM FINAL
                                                                                       Site Code    : 00000015                                                                                                                                                         Site Code        : 00000015
                                                                                       Start Date   : 5/20/2010                                                                                                                                                        Start Date       : 5/20/2010
                                                                                       Page No      :2                                                                                                                                                                 Page No          :1
                                            THATCHER DR
                                   Out           In     Total
                                            0       1       1
                                                                                                                                                                                                Groups Printed- Vehicles
                                    0     1                  0       0                                                                   THATCHER DR                                                                    THATCHER DR
                                Right Thru            Left       Peds                                                                      Southbound                                Westbound                            Northbound                                       Eastbound
                                                                                                                    Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds      App. Total Right Thru Left Peds             App. Total   Right    Thru  Left Peds      App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                     04:00 PM       0      0    0     0              0       0       0    0    2              2     0     2    0     0                    2       0       0     0     2             2           6
                                                                                                                     04:15 PM       0      0    0     0              0       0       0    0    0              0     0     4    0     0                    4       0       0     0     0             0           4
                                                                                                                     04:30 PM       0      2    0     0              2       0       0    0    0              0     0     0    0     0                    0       0       0     0    11            11          13
                                                                                                                     04:45 PM       0      0    0     0              0       0       0    0    0              0     0     1    0     0                    1       0       0     0     0             0           1
                                                                                                                         Total      0      2    0     0              2       0       0    0    2              2     0     7    0     0                    7       0       0     0    13            13          24

                                                                                                                     05:00 PM       0     2      0      0            2       0      0      0        4          4        0      2      0      0            2       0       0      0      1            1          9
                               Peak Hour Data                                                                        05:15 PM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0        4          4        0      0      0      0            0       0       0      0      4            4          8
                                                                                                                     05:30 PM       0     0      0      0            0       0      0      0        0          0        0      3      0      0            3       0       0      0      2            2          5
    3


              0




                                                                         Right Thru
Total




          Left




                                                                                                                     05:45 PM       0     2      0      0            2       0      0      0        2          2        0      3      0      0            3       0       0      0      0            0          7




                                                                                             Out
                                                                                                                         Total      0     4      0      0            4       0      0      0       10         10        0      8      0      0            8       0       0      0      7            7         29




                                                                             0


                                                                                         0
                                                  North
                         0
          Peds Right Thru
      3




                                                                                                                    Grand Total     0      6     0      0            6       0      0      0       12         12        0      15     0      0          15        0       0      0     20          20          53
In




                                                                                   0



                                                                                             In
                             Peak Hour Begins at 07:00 AM                                                            Apprch %       0    100     0      0                    0      0      0      100                   0     100     0      0                    0       0      0    100
                   0




                                                                         Left Peds



                                                                                         6
                             Vehicles
                                                                                                                       Total %      0   11.3     0      0       11.3         0      0      0     22.6      22.6         0    28.3     0      0       28.3         0       0      0    37.7      37.7




                                                                             0
      0
Out




                                                                                         Total
             3




                                                                                             6
                                                                                 6                                                      THATCHER DR                                                                          THATCHER DR
                                                                                                                                         Southbound                                 Westbound                                 Northbound                                   Eastbound
                                                                                                                    Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left    Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

                                                                                                                   Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
                                                                                                                   Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                                                                                     04:30 PM        0       2     0      0        2    0    0              0       0           0       0       0      0      0           0       0        0      0     11         11          13
                                                                                                                     04:45 PM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0              0       0           0       0       1      0      0           1       0        0      0      0          0           1
                                                                                                                     05:00 PM        0       2     0      0        2    0    0              0       4           4       0       2      0      0           2       0        0      0      1          1           9
                                 Left           Thru Right Peds
                                        0           0    0     0                                                     05:15 PM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0              0       4           4       0       0      0      0           0       0        0      0      4          4           8
                                                                                                                    Total Volume     0       4     0      0        4    0    0              0       8           8       0       3      0      0           3       0        0      0     16         16          31
                                                                                                                    % App. Total     0 100         0      0             0    0              0     100                   0     100      0      0                   0        0      0    100
                                            1       0       1
                                                                                                                            PHF .000 .500 .000 .000             .500 .000 .000           .000    .500      .500      .000    .375   .000   .000      .375      .000     .000   .000   .364      .364        .596
                                   Out           In     Total
                                            THATCHER DR
                             Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                           Traffic Data Service
                                     Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                   Campbell, CA
                                    (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                 (408) 377-2988
                                    tdsbay@cs.com                                      File Name    : 15PM FINAL                                                                                   tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name        : 16AM FINAL
                                                                                       Site Code    : 00000015                                                                                                                                                         Site Code        : 00000016
                                                                                       Start Date   : 5/20/2010                                                                                                                                                        Start Date       : 5/20/2010
                                                                                       Page No      :2                                                                                                                                                                 Page No          :1
                                            THATCHER DR
                                   Out           In     Total
                                            3       4       7
                                                                                                                                                                                   Groups Printed- Vehicles
                                    0     4                  0       0                                                                  CARMEL TERRACE                    CONCORD AVE                                                                                   CONCORD AVE
                                Right Thru            Left       Peds                                                                       Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                                                    Eastbound
                                                                                                                    Start Time Right     Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                           App. Total   Right    Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                     07:00 AM       0       0    0     1        1     0     1    0    0         1     0     0    0     0                                  0       0       0    0     1              1           3
                                                                                                                     07:15 AM       0       0    0     0        0     0     1    0    0         1     0     0    0     0                                  0       0       0    0     0              0           1
                                                                                                                     07:30 AM       0       0    0     0        0     0     0    0    0         0     0     0    0     0                                  0       0       1    0     0              1           1
                                                                                                                     07:45 AM       0       0    0     6        6     0     3    0    0         3     0     0    0     0                                  0       0      20    0    17             37          46
                                                                                                                         Total      0       0    0     7        7     0     5    0    0         5     0     0    0     0                                  0       0      21    0    18             39          51

                                                                                                                     08:00 AM       0       0     0      4            4       0      5      0      0           5        0      0      0      0            0       0       7      0     17          24          33
                               Peak Hour Data                                                                        08:15 AM       0       0     0      0            0       0      0      0      0           0        0      0      0      0            0       0       1      0      0           1           1
                                                                                                                     08:30 AM       0       0     0      0            0       0      3      0      0           3        0      0      0      0            0       0       1      0      0           1           4
   16


              0




                                                                         Right Thru
Total




          Left




                                                                                                                     08:45 AM       0       0     0      3            3       0      2      0      0           2        0      0      0      0            0       0       2      0      3           5          10




                                                                                             Out
                                                                                                                         Total      0       0     0      7            7       0     10      0      0          10        0      0      0      0            0       0      11      0     20          31          48




                                                                             0


                                                                                         0
                                                  North
                         0
          Peds Right Thru
  16




                                                                                                                    Grand Total     0       0     0      14         14        0      15     0      0          15        0      0      0      0            0       0       32     0     38          70          99
In




                                                                                   0



                                                                                             In
                             Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM                                                            Apprch %       0       0     0     100                   0     100     0      0                    0      0      0      0                    0     45.7     0    54.3
                   0




                                                                         Left Peds



                                                                                         8
                             Vehicles
                                                                                                                       Total %      0       0     0    14.1      14.1         0    15.2     0      0       15.2         0      0      0      0            0       0     32.3     0    38.4      70.7




                                                                             0
      0
Out




                                                                                         Total
            16




                                                                                             8
                                                                                 8                                                      CARMEL TERRACE                             CONCORD AVE                                                                          CONCORD AVE
                                                                                                                                           Southbound                               Westbound                                  Northbound                                 Eastbound
                                                                                                                    Start Time Right     Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

                                                                                                                   Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
                                                                                                                   Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
                                                                                                                     07:45 AM        0       0     0      6        6    0    3               0      0          3        0       0      0      0           0       0       20      0     17         37          46
                                                                                                                     08:00 AM        0       0     0      4        4    0    5               0      0          5        0       0      0      0           0       0        7      0     17         24          33
                                                                                                                     08:15 AM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0               0      0          0        0       0      0      0           0       0        1      0      0          1           1
                                 Left           Thru Right Peds
                                        0           3    0     0                                                     08:30 AM        0       0     0      0        0    0    3               0      0          3        0       0      0      0           0       0        1      0      0          1           4
                                                                                                                    Total Volume     0       0     0     10       10    0   11               0      0         11        0       0      0      0           0       0       29      0     34         63          84
                                                                                                                    % App. Total     0       0     0 100                0 100                0      0                   0       0      0      0                   0       46      0     54
                                            4       3       7
                                                                                                                            PHF .000 .000 .000 .417             .417 .000 .550            .000   .000      .550      .000    .000   .000   .000      .000      .000     .363   .000   .500      .426        .457
                                   Out           In     Total
                                            THATCHER DR
                                       Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                                        Traffic Data Service
                                               Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                                Campbell, CA
                                              (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                              (408) 377-2988
                                              tdsbay@cs.com                                        File Name              : 16AM FINAL                                                                                    tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name        : 16PM FINAL
                                                                                                   Site Code              : 00000016                                                                                                                                                          Site Code        : 00000016
                                                                                                   Start Date             : 5/20/2010                                                                                                                                                         Start Date       : 5/20/2010
                                                                                                   Page No                :2                                                                                                                                                                  Page No          :1
                                              CARMEL TERRACE
                                             Out    In     Total
                                                 0     10     10
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Groups Printed- Vehicles
                                              0     0                     0      10                                                                            CARMEL TERRACE                    CONCORD AVE                                                                                   CONCORD AVE
                                          Right Thru               Left       Peds                                                                                 Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                                                    Eastbound
                                                                                                                                          Start Time Right      Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                           App. Total   Right    Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                                           04:00 PM       0        0    0     0        0     0     2    0    0         2     0     0    0     0                                  0       0      3     0     0               3          5
                                                                                                                                           04:15 PM       0        0    0     0        0     0     0    0    0         0     0     0    0     0                                  0       0      1     0     0               1          1
                                                                                                                                           04:30 PM       0        0    0     0        0     0     0    0    0         0     0     0    0     0                                  0       0      2     0     0               2          2
                                                                                                                                           04:45 PM       0        0    0     0        0     0     0    0    0         0     0     0    0     0                                  0       0      2     0     1               3          3
                                                                                                                                               Total      0        0    0     0        0     0     2    0    0         2     0     0    0     0                                  0       0      8     0     1               9         11

                                                                                                                                           05:00 PM       0        0     0      0            0       0      4      0      0           4        0      0      0      0            0       0       0      0      0           0           4
                                         Peak Hour Data                                                                                    05:15 PM       0        0     0      0            0       0      0      0      1           1        0      0      0      0            0       0       0      0      0           0           1
                                                                                                                                           05:30 PM       0        0     0      2            2       0      2      0      0           2        0      0      0      0            0       0       2      0      4           6          10
                74


                         0




                                                                                      Right Thru
             Total




                     Left




                                                                                                                                           05:45 PM       1        0     0      4            5       0      3      0      0           3        0      0      0      0            0       0       4      0      0           4          12




                                                                                                     Out
                                                                                                                                               Total      1        0     0      6            7       0      9      0      1          10        0      0      0      0            0       0       6      0      4          10          27




                                                                                          0


                                                                                                       29

                                                                                                        CONCORD AVE
 CONCORD AVE




                                                            North
                                  29
                     Peds Right Thru
        63




                                                                                                                                          Grand Total      1       0     0       6           7       0      11     0       1         12        0      0      0      0            0       0       14     0       5         19          38




                                                                                              11
      In




                                                                                                            In
                                       Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM                                                                        Apprch %     14.3       0     0    85.7                   0    91.7     0     8.3                   0      0      0      0                    0     73.7     0    26.3




                                                                                                              11
                              0




                                                                                      Left Peds
                                       Vehicles
                                                                                                                                             Total %     2.6       0     0    15.8      18.4         0    28.9     0     2.6      31.6         0      0      0      0            0       0     36.8     0    13.2         50




                                                                                          0
  11
Out




                                                                                                                  Total
                       34




                                                                                                                     40
                                                                                              0                                                                CARMEL TERRACE                             CONCORD AVE                                                                          CONCORD AVE
                                                                                                                                                                  Southbound                               Westbound                                  Northbound                                 Eastbound
                                                                                                                                          Start Time Right      Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

                                                                                                                                         Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
                                                                                                                                         Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                                                                                                           05:00 PM        0       0     0      0        0    0    4                0      0          4        0       0      0      0           0       0        0      0      0          0           4
                                                                                                                                           05:15 PM        0       0     0      0        0    0    0                0      1          1        0       0      0      0           0       0        0      0      0          0           1
                                                                                                                                           05:30 PM        0       0     0      2        2    0    2                0      0          2        0       0      0      0           0       0        2      0      4          6          10
                                           Left           Thru Right Peds
                                                  0           0    0     0                                                                 05:45 PM        1       0     0      4        5    0    3                0      0          3        0       0      0      0           0       0        4      0      0          4          12
                                                                                                                                          Total Volume     1       0     0      6        7    0    9                0      1         10        0       0      0      0           0       0        6      0      4         10          27
                                                                                                                                          % App. Total 14.3        0     0 85.7               0   90                0     10                   0       0      0      0                   0       60      0     40
                                                      0            0              0
                                                                                                                                                  PHF .250 .000 .000 .375             .350 .000 .563             .000   .250      .625      .000    .000   .000   .000      .000      .000     .375   .000   .250      .417        .563
                                             Out              In              Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CustomList-2718 Page 1
                                        Traffic Data Service
                                                Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                          Traffic Data Service
                                               (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                            Speed Report
                                               tdsbay@cs.com                                         File Name              : 16PM FINAL
                                                                                                     Site Code              : 00000016
                                                                                                                                           Datasets:
                                                                                                     Start Date             : 5/20/2010    Site:                         [1E] EB COVINGTON RD W/O MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                                                     Page No                :2             Data type:                    Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
                                               CARMEL TERRACE
                                              Out    In     Total                                                                          Profile:
                                                  0     7       7
                                                                                                                                           Included classes:             1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
                                                                                                                                           Speed range:                  0 - 100 mph.
                                               1     0                     0       6                                                       Direction:                    East (bound)
                                           Right Thru               Left       Peds
                                                                                                                                           Separation:                   All - (Headway)
                                                                                                                                           Name:                         TDS Standard
                                                                                                                                           Scheme:                       Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
                                                                                                                                           Units:                        Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)

                                                                                                                                           Column Legend:
                                                                                                                                           0 [Time]                      24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
                                                                                                                                           1 [Total]                     Number in time step
                                          Peak Hour Data                                                                                   2 [Vbin]                      Speed bin totals
                                                                                                                                           3 [vPace]                     Speed at start of pace
                20


                         0




                                                                                       Right Thru
             Total




                     Left




                                                                                                       Out
                                                                                                                                           4 [Pace%]                     Percent in pace




                                                                                           0




                                                                                                          CONCORD AVE
 CONCORD AVE




                                                                                                           6
                                                             North                                                                         5 [Mean]                      Average speed
                                    6
                     Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                           6 [Vpp]                       Percentile speed
        10
      In




                                                                                                 9



                                                                                                              In
                                        Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM




                                                                                                                10
                              0




                                                                                       Left Peds
                                        Vehicles




                                                                                           0
  10




                                                                                                                                           * Tuesday, May 04, 2010
Out




                                                                                                                    Total
                        4




                                                                                                                                            Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp




                                                                                                                       16
                                                                                                                                                              0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85


                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                              5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
                                                                                                                                            0000      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.1 100.0    30.0      -
                                                                                                                                            0100      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 30.2 100.0    40.2      -
                                                                                                                                            0200      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 28.6 100.0    38.6      -
                                                                                                                                            0300      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                            0400      5       0      0      0      0      1      1      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 80.0     30.1      -
                                                                                                                                            0500     22       0      1      0      0      0      4     11      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 77.3     32.1   37.4
                                                                                                                                            0600     71       0      0      0      1      9     21     28      9      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 71.8     30.4   35.1
                                                                                                                                            0700    283      13     15     17      9     30    110     71     18      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 67.1     25.4   32.4
                                                                                                                                            0800    316      23      4      5      9     16    100    128     29      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 72.8     27.8   34.0
                                                                                                                                            0900    170       0      0      0      1      7     48     85     25      4      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.1 86.5     31.6   35.6
                                                                                                                                            1000     99       0      0      0      0      4     35     36     19      5      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 73.7     31.8   36.9
                                                                                                                                            1100    105       0      0      0      1      5     25     56     16      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.4 84.8     31.6   35.1
                                                                                                                                            1200    140       0      0      0      1      9     42     62     26      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.2 79.3     31.1   35.3
                                                                                                                                            1300    118       0      0      0      2      3     41     49     22      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.7 83.1     31.3   35.1
                                                                                                                                            1400    214       0      0      0      3     13     81     93     19      5      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 81.3     30.5   34.2
                                            Left           Thru Right Peds                                                                  1500    198       0      0      3      1     13     73     87     19      1      1      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 82.3     30.2   34.0
                                                   0           0    0     0                                                                 1600    227       0      0      0      0     10     68    107     38      4      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.3 80.6     31.7   35.8
                                                                                                                                            1700    195       0      0      0      0      6     55    100     32      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.1 85.1     31.8   35.6
                                                                                                                                            1800    196       0      0      0      0      4     61    102     27      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.4 88.8     31.7   34.9
                                                       0            0              0                                                        1900    111       0      0      1      0      9     41     48     10      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 82.9     30.3   33.8
                                                                                                                                            2000     57       0      0      0      1      6     23     21      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 82.5     30.2   33.6
                                              Out              In              Total                                                        2100     40       0      0      0      0      2     11     19      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.2 80.0     31.6   35.6
                                                                                                                                            2200     21       0      0      0      0      1      2     12      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.2 81.0     32.8   36.0
                                                                                                                                            2300      6       0      0      0      0      1      1      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 83.3     31.0      -
                                                                                                                                           07-19   2261      36     19     25     27    120    739    976    290     28      1      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 77.2     30.1   34.7
                                                                                                                                           06-22   2540      36     19     26     29    146    835   1092    321     35      1      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 77.0     30.1   34.7
                                                                                                                                           06-00   2567      36     19     26     29    148    838   1107    327     36      1      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 77.0     30.1   34.7
                                                                                                                                           00-00   2597      36     20     26     29    149    843   1122    332     39      1      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 77.0     30.2   34.7

                                                                                                                                           Peak step 8:00 (316) AM Peak step 8:00 (316) PM Peak step 16:00 (227)
                                                                                                                                 CustomList-2718 Page 2                                                                                                                                   CustomList-2717 Page 1
* Wednesday, May 05, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin    Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                    Traffic Data Service
                   0       5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5      10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100                                                                                                 Speed Report
 0000      1       0       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.4 100.0    30.3      -
 0100      2       0       0      0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 29.3 100.0    35.4      -
 0200      1       0       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 100.0    32.4      -
 0300      2       0       0      0      0      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 100.0    32.8      -
 0400      4       0       0      0      0      0      2      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 100.0    30.1      -         Datasets:
 0500     21       0       1      1      0      2      5      8      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 66.7     29.3   34.9
 0600     54       0       0      0      0      8     19     20      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 75.9     30.3   34.7         Site:                         [1W] WB COVINGTON RD W/O MIRAMONTE AVE
 0700    254       0       0      4      3     21     80    107     35      2      2      0      0      0      0      0 26.2 76.4     30.5   34.9
 0800    291      15      19     23     30     43     88     62     10      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 53.3     23.3   31.8
                                                                                                                                                          Data type:                    Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0900    165       0       0      0      0      8     60     74     19      4      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 82.4     31.1   34.4
 1000    101       0       0      0      0      5     26     47     19      4      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.2 78.2     31.7   35.8
 1100    136       0       0      1      1     10     44     54     22      3      1      0      0      0      0      0 26.6 78.7     31.1   35.8         Profile:
 1200    148       0       0      0      1      6     44     75     17      4      1      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 81.8     31.3   34.9
 1300    111       0       0      0      1      8     44     37     18      2      1      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 73.9     30.9   35.8         Included classes:             1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1400
 1500
         220
         180
                   0
                   0
                           0
                           0
                                  2
                                  1
                                         0
                                         1
                                               16
                                               13
                                                      89
                                                      67
                                                             88
                                                             64
                                                                    21
                                                                    28
                                                                            4
                                                                            6
                                                                                   0
                                                                                   0
                                                                                          0
                                                                                          0
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                      0 24.4 81.4
                                                                                                                      0 25.3 76.7
                                                                                                                                      30.2
                                                                                                                                      30.8
                                                                                                                                             34.0
                                                                                                                                             35.1
                                                                                                                                                          Speed range:                  0 - 100 mph.
 1600    240       0       0      0      0      9     87    114     26      4      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.6 85.0     31.0   34.4         Direction:                    West (bound)
 1700    199       0       0      1      1      4     50    105     36      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.3 83.4     32.0   36.0
 1800    212       0       0      2      1      7     64    106     30      1      1      0      0      0      0      0 27.1 84.0     31.3   34.9         Separation:                   All - (Headway)
 1900    150       0       0      1      0      7     48     72     17      4      1      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 83.3     31.3   34.9
 2000     59       0       0      0      0      3     24     25      5      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 84.7     31.0   34.0
                                                                                                                                                          Name:                         TDS Standard
 2100     45       0       0      1      1      1     14     23      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 84.4     30.5   34.0         Scheme:                       Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 2200     18       0       0      0      0      2      3      6      5      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 28.6 72.2     33.1   38.0
 2300      4       0       0      0      0      0      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.3 100.0    30.2      -         Units:                        Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
07-19   2257      15      19     34     39    150    743    933    281     37      6      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 75.0     30.1   34.7
06-22   2565      15      19     36     40    169    848   1073    315     43      7      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 75.8     30.2   34.7
06-00   2587      15      19     36     40    171    853   1081    320     45      7      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 75.7     30.2   34.7         Column Legend:
00-00   2618      15      20     37     40    173    860   1095    325     46      7      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 75.6     30.2   34.7         0 [Time]                      24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
Peak step 8:00 (291) AM Peak step 8:00 (291) PM Peak step 16:00 (240)                                                                                     1 [Total]                     Number in time step
* Thursday, May 06, 2010
                                                                                                                                                          2 [Vbin]                      Speed bin totals
 Time   Total   Vbin    Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp         3 [vPace]                     Speed at start of pace
                   0       5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5      10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
                                                                                                                                                          4 [Pace%]                     Percent in pace
 0000      2       0       0      0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 28.0 100.0    34.5      -         5 [Mean]                      Average speed
 0100      2       0       0      0      1      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   6.3 50.0    23.3      -
 0200      0       0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -         6 [Vpp]                       Percentile speed
 0300      1       0       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.5 100.0    37.5      -
 0400      3       0       0      0      0      0      1      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 100.0    32.5      -
 0500     17       0       0      0      0      2      4      8      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 76.5     31.3   34.7
 0600     56       0       0      3      0      2     20     21      7      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 73.2     30.5   36.7
 0700    253      32       9      7      4     26     87     64     21      2      0      1      0      0      0      0 23.9 60.5     25.1   33.6         * Tuesday, May 04, 2010
 0800    295      24      24      0      1     21    109    101     12      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 71.2     25.7   32.9          Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
 0900    182       1       0      0      1     10     61     82     24      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.2 80.2     31.0   34.9                            0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
 1000    114       0       0      0      1      7     38     56     11      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 86.8     30.7   34.2                            5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 1100    113       0       0      0      0      6     41     50     14      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 84.1     31.1   34.7
                                                                                                                                                           0000      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 100.0    29.8      -
 1200    130       0       0      0      1      4     39     61     21      4      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.4 82.3     31.8   35.8
                                                                                                                                                           0100      2       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 100.0    31.6      -
 1300    151       0       0      0      0      6     50     66     26      2      1      0      0      0      0      0 27.7 80.8     31.6   35.8
                                                                                                                                                           0200      2       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.1 50.0     35.8      -
 1400    232       0       0      1      0     20     96     88     20      7      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 80.6     30.2   34.4
                                                                                                                                                           0300      4       0      0      0      0      0      2      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 75.0     32.6      -
 1500    230       0       0      1      3     24     95     88     18      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 80.0     29.7   33.8
                                                                                                                                                           0400      2       0      0      0      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.9 100.0    26.6      -
 1600    209       0       0      0      0     10     61    103     32      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 85.6     31.5   35.1
                                                                                                                                                           0500      5       0      0      0      1      0      1      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 80.0     29.2      -
 1700    236       0       0      0      1      5     72    103     46      8      0      1      0      0      0      0 27.3 81.8     32.0   36.2
                                                                                                                                                           0600     28       0      0      0      0      4     14      9      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 85.7     28.9   32.9
 1800    209       0       0      0      1      4     62     91     46      5      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.8 80.4     31.9   36.0
                                                                                                                                                           0700    135       0      0      1      0      7     58     52     15      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 83.0     30.4   34.4
 1900    123       0       0      1      2      5     32     62     16      4      1      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 78.9     31.5   35.1
                                                                                                                                                           0800    199       0      0      0      2     11     78     88     19      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 83.9     30.3   34.0
 2000     58       0       0      0      1      1     25     23      6      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.6 86.2     30.6   33.8
                                                                                                                                                           0900    113       0      0      1      1      2     39     55     15      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 87.6     30.7   34.4
 2100     51       0       0      0      0      1     18     18     11      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.8 78.4     32.6   37.1
                                                                                                                                                           1000    127       0      0      2      1      6     47     55     14      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 84.3     30.5   34.2
 2200     23       0       0      0      0      1      6     11      4      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 73.9     32.1   38.0
                                                                                                                                                           1100    141       0      1      1      1      5     44     69     16      4      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 84.4     31.1   34.9
 2300      6       0       0      0      0      0      1      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.1 100.0    32.1      -
                                                                                                                                                           1200    161       0      0      1      3      6     45     77     28      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.6 82.6     31.2   35.3
07-19   2354      57      33      9     13    143    811    953    291     41      1      2      0      0      0      0 25.7 76.0     29.8   34.7          1300    127       0      0      2      2      4     44     56     18      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 81.9     30.7   34.4
06-22   2642      57      33     13     16    152    906   1077    331     53      2      2      0      0      0      0 25.7 76.1     30.0   34.9          1400    206       0      0      1      4      4     84     86     18      9      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 83.0     30.6   34.4
06-00   2671      57      33     13     16    153    913   1092    336     53      3      2      0      0      0      0 25.7 76.0     30.0   34.9          1500    216       0      0      7      2     23     81     90     13      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 81.0     29.1   33.3
00-00   2696      57      33     13     17    155    918   1103    342     53      3      2      0      0      0      0 25.7 76.0     30.0   34.9          1600    213       0      0      4      1      9     77     91     27      4      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.2 82.2     30.6   34.9
                                                                                                                                                           1700    241       0      0      1      0      8     88    100     41      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 82.2     31.2   35.3
Peak step 8:00 (295) AM Peak step 8:00 (295) PM Peak step 17:00 (236)                                                                                      1800    224       0      0      1      2      7     78    106     26      4      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 87.9     30.9   34.2
                                                                                                                                                           1900    178       0      0      2      2     10     71     78     13      1      0      1      0      0      0      0 24.6 85.4     30.0   33.3
* Grand Total                                                                                                                                              2000    101       0      0      0      0      9     44     38     10      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 85.1     29.8   34.2
 Time   Total   Vbin    Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp          2100     72       0      0      0      1      6     29     33      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 90.3     29.8   32.4
                                                                                                                                                           2200     21       0      0      0      0      1      7     11      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 90.5     30.7   34.0
                   0       5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85          2300     10       0      0      0      0      1      4      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 80.0     30.3      -
                   5      10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100                                   07-19   2103       0      1     22     19     92    763    925    250     31      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 82.6     30.6   34.7
   --    7911    108      73     76     86    477   2621   3320    999    138     11      2      0      0      0      0 25.7 76.2     30.1   34.9         06-22   2482       0      1     24     22    121    921   1083    277     32      0      1      0      0      0      0 25.9 82.7     30.5   34.4
                                                                                                                                                          06-00   2513       0      1     24     22    123    932   1098    280     32      0      1      0      0      0      0 25.9 82.8     30.5   34.4
In profile:            Vehicles = 7911 / 21319 (37.11%)
                                                                                                                                                          00-00   2529       0      1     24     23    123    939   1102    282     34      0      1      0      0      0      0 25.9 82.7     30.5   34.4

                                                                                                                                                          Peak step 17:00 (241) AM Peak step 8:00 (199) PM Peak step 17:00 (241)
                                                                                                                                 CustomList-2717 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-2720 Page 1
* Wednesday, May 05, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin    Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                    Traffic Data Service
                   0       5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85

 0000      2
                   5
                   0
                          10
                           0
                                 15
                                  0
                                        20
                                         0
                                               25
                                                0
                                                      30
                                                       2
                                                             35
                                                              0
                                                                    40
                                                                     0
                                                                           45
                                                                            0
                                                                                  50
                                                                                   0
                                                                                         55
                                                                                          0
                                                                                                60
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                       65
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                              70
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                    100
                                                                                                                      0 18.8 100.0    28.4      -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Speed Report
 0100      1       0       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 100.0    29.6      -
 0200      1       0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 31.5 100.0    41.6      -
 0300      1       0       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.6 100.0    36.6      -
 0400      3       0       0      0      0      0      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 100.0    32.3      -         Datasets:
 0500      4       0       0      0      0      0      1      1      1      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 21.0 50.0     35.3      -
 0600     32       0       0      0      0      2     14     12      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 81.3     30.6   34.4         Site:                    [2E] EB COVINGTON RD E/O MIRAMONTE AVE
 0700    146       0       0      1      2      6     56     63     16      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 84.9     30.6   34.4
 0800    170       1       1      0      3     16     69     68     10      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 82.4     29.2   33.1         Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0900    119       0       0      1      1     10     44     47     15      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 78.2     30.2   34.7
 1000    116       0       0      2      1      8     42     52     10      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 84.5     30.3   34.0
 1100    137       0       0      2      2      6     56     57     11      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 83.2     30.2   33.8         Profile:
 1200    151       0       1      2      2      2     55     66     22      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 86.1     30.6   34.9
 1300    115       0       0      1      1      4     38     52     18      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.6 84.3     30.8   35.1         Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1400    218       0       0      2      5     15     89     69     38      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 75.2     30.0   35.1
 1500    202       0       5     14      2     14     76     62     22      6      1      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 70.8     28.6   34.2
                                                                                                                                                          Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1600    222       0       0      2      3      8     70    104     30      5      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 82.4     31.0   35.1         Direction:               East (bound)
 1700    259       0       0      1      2     13     82    121     36      4      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 80.7     31.0   34.9
 1800    204       0       0      0      1     13     84     88     17      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 85.3     30.2   33.6         Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1900    172       0       0      0      1     15     75     72      7      1      1      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 86.0     29.8   33.3
 2000    102       0       0      0      0      4     41     42     12      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 86.3     30.9   34.7         Name:                    TDS Standard
 2100
 2200
         146
          31
                   0
                   0
                           0
                           0
                                  0
                                  0
                                         0
                                         0
                                                8
                                                1
                                                      67
                                                      11
                                                             55
                                                             14
                                                                    14
                                                                     5
                                                                            2
                                                                            0
                                                                                   0
                                                                                   0
                                                                                          0
                                                                                          0
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                      0 24.8 84.2
                                                                                                                      0 25.5 87.1
                                                                                                                                      30.5
                                                                                                                                      31.3
                                                                                                                                             34.2
                                                                                                                                             34.7
                                                                                                                                                          Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 2300      7       0       0      0      0      1      2      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      1      0 27.1 71.4     36.1      -         Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
07-19   2059       1       7     28     25    115    761    849    245     27      1      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 80.3     30.2   34.4
06-22   2511       1       7     28     26    144    958   1030    281     34      2      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 80.9     30.2   34.4
06-00   2549       1       7     28     26    146    971   1045    288     34      2      0      0      0      1      0 25.7 80.9     30.3   34.4         Column Legend:
00-00   2561       1       7     28     26    146    976   1048    290     35      3      0      0      0      1      0 25.7 80.8     30.3   34.4
                                                                                                                                                          0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
Peak step 17:00 (259) AM Peak step 8:00 (170) PM Peak step 17:00 (259)                                                                                    1 [Total]                Number in time step
* Thursday, May 06, 2010                                                                                                                                  2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
 Time   Total   Vbin    Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp         3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                   0       5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5      10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100                                   4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
 0000
 0100
           4
           3
                   0
                   0
                           0
                           0
                                  0
                                  0
                                         0
                                         1
                                                0
                                                0
                                                       2
                                                       1
                                                              0
                                                              1
                                                                     2
                                                                     0
                                                                            0
                                                                            0
                                                                                   0
                                                                                   0
                                                                                          0
                                                                                          0
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                      0 18.1 50.0
                                                                                                                      0 22.4 66.7
                                                                                                                                      32.6
                                                                                                                                      26.1
                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                          5 [Mean]                 Average speed
 0200      2       0       0      0      0      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 100.0    33.2      -         6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
 0300      0       0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0400      2       0       0      0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 100.0    33.4      -
 0500      7       0       0      0      1      0      2      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.1 85.7     30.5      -
 0600     23       0       0      0      0      1     12      6      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 82.6     30.8   34.9
 0700    133       0       2      4      3      6     62     42     13      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 78.9     29.1   34.2
 0800    201       0       0      3      4     13     76     91     14      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 83.6     29.5   33.3         * Tuesday, May 04, 2010
 0900    110       0       0      0      1      3     43     50     12      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 91.8     30.5   34.0          Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
 1000    122       0       0      0      0      3     43     63     12      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 87.7     31.1   34.2                            0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
 1100    153       0       0      1      2     10     60     59     20      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 26.6 83.0     30.3   34.2                            5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 1200    156       0       0      3      0      6     64     59     18      6      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.2 81.4     30.8   35.1
 1300    137       0       0      0      0      9     55     51     21      0      0      1      0      0      0      0 25.3 80.3     30.9   34.9          0000      2       0      0      0      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.8 100.0    27.5      -
 1400    210       0       0      3      4      7     74     89     33      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 77.6     30.7   35.1          0100      3       0      0      0      0      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.9 100.0    26.6      -
 1500    222       0       2      8      3     11     81     89     28      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 78.8     29.5   34.2          0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 1600    235       0       0      2      1      8     86    104     28      6      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.4 84.7     31.0   34.7          0300      3       0      0      0      0      1      1      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.3 66.7     28.2      -
 1700    269       0       1      0      2      8     97    121     37      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.4 85.9     31.0   34.7
 1800    211       0       0      1      2     13     73     95     22      5      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 81.0     30.8   34.4          0400      3       0      0      0      0      1      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 100.0    28.0      -
 1900    139       0       0      1      2      6     59     60     10      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 87.1     30.0   33.3          0500     17       0      0      0      0      1      6      7      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 76.5     31.4   33.6
 2000     92       0       0      0      0      4     47     37      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 92.4     29.8   32.7          0600     68       0      0      1      4      5     26     27      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 79.4     29.2   33.6
 2100     64       0       0      0      0      4     21     31      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 82.8     31.1   34.2          0700    302       0      2      6      4     30    177     71     10      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 87.7     28.0   31.3
 2200     21       0       0      0      0      0     11      6      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 81.0     30.7   35.8          0800    319       0      0      3      4     36    147    107     21      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 83.1     29.0   32.7
 2300     10       0       0      0      0      0      5      3      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.1 100.0    31.4      -
07-19   2159       0       5     25     22     97    814    913    258     23      1      1      0      0      0      0 25.7 81.2     30.5   34.4          0900    165       0      0      2      0     16     69     69      7      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 84.8     29.5   32.9
06-22   2477       0       5     26     24    112    953   1047    282     26      1      1      0      0      0      0 25.7 81.9     30.4   34.4          1000    127       0      1      0      2     20     51     42     11      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 79.5     29.0   33.1
06-00   2508       0       5     26     24    112    969   1056    288     26      1      1      0      0      0      0 25.7 81.8     30.4   34.4          1100    127       0      0      0      2      5     63     52      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 91.3     29.3   32.0
00-00   2526       0       5     26     26    112    974   1062    293     26      1      1      0      0      0      0 25.7 81.7     30.4   34.4          1200    178       0      0      1      0     12     80     67     18      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 86.5     29.9   33.8
                                                                                                                                                           1300    130       0      0      0      6     11     75     33      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 86.9     28.2   31.5
Peak step 17:00 (269) AM Peak step 8:00 (201) PM Peak step 17:00 (269)                                                                                     1400    202       0      0      0      2     28    107     60      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 88.6     28.4   31.8
                                                                                                                                                           1500    220       0      0      0      4     30    122     60      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 88.6     28.4   32.0
* Grand Total                                                                                                                                              1600    215       0      1      4      3     20     96     82      7      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 85.6     28.9   32.7
 Time   Total   Vbin    Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp          1700    205       0      0      1      2     14    113     64     11      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 87.8     29.0   32.4
                   0       5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5      10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
                                                                                                                                                           1800    195       0      0      0      3     23     86     75      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 85.6     29.0   32.9
   --    7616      1      13     78     75    381   2889   3212    865     95      4      2      0      0      1      0 25.7 81.7     30.4   34.4          1900    128       0      0      0      3     14     58     48      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 85.9     29.0   32.4
                                                                                                                                                           2000     94       0      0      0      2     15     39     33      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 81.9     28.7   32.9
In profile:            Vehicles = 7616 / 21319 (35.72%)                                                                                                    2100     42       0      0      0      0      4     20     16      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 90.5     29.4   32.7
                                                                                                                                                           2200     23       0      0      0      0      2      7     12      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 87.0     30.4   32.9
                                                                                                                                                           2300      4       0      0      0      0      0      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.5 100.0    28.5      -
                                                                                                                                                          07-19   2385       0      4     17     32    245   1186    782    111      8      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 84.6     28.8   32.4
                                                                                                                                                          06-22   2717       0      4     18     41    283   1329    906    126     10      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 84.4     28.9   32.4
                                                                                                                                                          06-00   2744       0      4     18     41    285   1339    919    128     10      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 84.4     28.9   32.4
                                                                                                                                                          00-00   2772       0      4     18     41    289   1351    927    131     11      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 84.3     28.9   32.4

                                                                                                                                                          Peak step 8:00 (319) AM Peak step 8:00 (319) PM Peak step 15:00 (220)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-2720 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-2719 Page 1

* Wednesday, May 05, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                   0
                   5
                          5
                         10
                                10
                                15
                                       15
                                       20
                                              20
                                              25
                                                     25
                                                     30
                                                            30
                                                            35
                                                                   35
                                                                   40
                                                                          40
                                                                          45
                                                                                 45
                                                                                 50
                                                                                        50
                                                                                        55
                                                                                               55
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                             65
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                          10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Report
 0000      3       0      0      0      0      0      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 100.0    30.9      -
 0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0200      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.3 100.0    28.4      -
 0300      3       0      0      0      0      1      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.4 66.7     29.4      -      Datasets:
 0400      3       0      0      0      0      0      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 100.0    30.3      -      Site:                    [2W] WB COVINGTON RD E/O MIRAMONTE AVE
 0500     18       0      0      0      0      2      7      5      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.2 72.2     30.4   35.3
 0600     42       0      0      0      1      3     19     16      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 85.7     29.6   32.7      Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0700    227       0      0      1      4      4     87    107     22      1      1      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 86.8     30.6   33.8
 0800    346       3      4     16     15     29    192     79      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 80.6     26.7   30.9      Profile:
 0900    166       0      0      1      1     15     74     56     16      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 81.3     29.9   33.8
 1000    135       0      0      1      1     10     63     51      9      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 85.9     29.6   32.7      Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1100    128       0      0      1      0      9     58     54      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 87.5     29.9   32.9      Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1200    179       0      0      1      0     19     71     78      8      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 83.2     29.7   33.3
 1300    126       0      0      2      0     13     64     38      8      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 85.7     29.1   32.7      Direction:               West (bound)
 1400    218       0      0      1      4     32    125     52      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 87.6     27.9   30.9      Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1500    198       1      0      3      8     42     92     42      9      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 79.3     27.2   31.3
 1600    268       0      0      3      2     17    132    101     13      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 88.8     29.3   32.4
                                                                                                                                                      Name:                    TDS Standard
 1700    216       0      0      1      5      9     96     98      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 89.4     29.5   32.7      Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 1800    241       0      0      0      2     22    127     84      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 88.0     29.1   32.0      Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
 1900    163       0      0      1      0      9     78     67      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 90.2     29.4   32.7
 2000     81       0      0      0      1      7     35     31      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 85.2     29.9   33.6
 2100     68       0      0      0      0      4     32     27      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 88.2     30.1   32.9      Column Legend:
 2200     23       0      0      0      0      1     10      9      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.6 91.3     30.4   34.4      0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
 2300      9       0      0      0      0      1      3      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.9 88.9     30.3      -
07-19   2448       4      4     31     42    221   1181    840    114      9      2      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 83.6     28.9   32.4      1 [Total]                Number in time step
06-22   2802       4      4     32     44    244   1345    981    136     10      2      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 83.9     29.0   32.7      2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
06-00   2834       4      4     32     44    246   1358    994    140     10      2      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 83.9     29.0   32.7
00-00   2862       4      4     32     44    249   1368   1004    144     11      2      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 83.8     29.0   32.7
                                                                                                                                                      3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                                                                                                                                                      4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
Peak step 8:00 (346) AM Peak step 8:00 (346) PM Peak step 16:00 (268)                                                                                 5 [Mean]                 Average speed
* Thursday, May 06, 2010
                                                                                                                                                      6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0000      4       0      0      0      0      1      1      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.9 75.0     29.2      -      * Tuesday, May 04, 2010
 0100      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 100.0    32.8      -       Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
 0200      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 100.0    33.3      -                         0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
 0300      3       0      0      0      0      0      1      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 66.7     32.3      -                         5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0400      2       0      0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 100.0    30.8      -       0000      1       0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   1.1 100.0   11.1      -
 0500     14       0      0      0      1      1      5      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 85.7     29.6   34.0       0100      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.9 100.0    27.9      -
 0600     39       0      0      0      0      3     13     20      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 84.6     30.7   33.3       0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0700    292       0      3      3     13     36    148     78     11      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 80.1     27.9   31.5       0300      5       0      0      0      2      0      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 60.0     26.2      -
 0800    284       0      1      3      3     39    135     87     15      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 81.3     28.5   32.2       0400      2       0      0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 100.0    30.3      -
 0900    187       0      0      2      1     11    104     58     11      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 86.1     29.1   32.9       0500      5       0      0      0      1      0      1      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.8 80.0     30.7      -
 1000    119       0      0      2      2     10     53     47      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 85.7     29.1   32.4       0600     34       0      0      0      1      0     13     16      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.1 88.2     30.7   33.8
 1100    150       0      0      1      0      5     69     68      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 91.3     29.7   32.7       0700    206       0      0      2      0     12    115     71      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 90.3     29.3   32.4
 1200    158       0      0      1      1     14     72     60     10      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 86.1     29.5   33.3       0800    233       0      0      1      1     18    118     83     12      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 86.7     29.4   32.4
 1300    150       0      0      0      2      9     67     60     11      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 86.0     29.9   33.1       0900    140       0      0      2      1      6     65     55      9      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 88.6     29.7   32.9
 1400    202       0      0      1      5     21    109     56      9      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 84.7     28.4   32.0       1000    133       0      0      2      1     11     63     48      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 85.7     29.2   32.7
 1500    253       0      1      1      0     33    130     77     11      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 87.0     28.7   32.4       1100    166       0      1      1      3     13     73     59     15      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 80.7     29.4   33.8
 1600    223       0      1      2      2     14    104     87     12      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 87.9     29.4   33.1       1200    185       0      1      1      2     14     83     73     11      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 85.4     29.5   32.9
 1700    250       0      0      0      4     17    135     83     10      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 90.0     29.2   32.2       1300    116       0      0      3      1      7     44     51      8      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 83.6     29.9   33.8
 1800    195       0      0      1      1      9    100     68     16      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 86.7     29.6   33.1       1400    242       0      0      7      3     22    113     78     15      4      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 79.3     28.9   32.7
 1900    130       0      0      0      3      7     73     44      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 91.5     28.9   32.2       1500    237       0      2      7      7     47     93     76      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 78.9     27.5   32.2
 2000     68       0      0      0      0      8     40     19      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 92.6     28.3   31.8       1600    220       0      1      4      1     15     89    100      9      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 86.8     29.5   32.9
 2100     52       0      0      0      1      2     23     23      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 88.5     30.0   32.9       1700    233       0      1      0      0     12    101     98     21      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 85.8     30.2   33.8
 2200     29       0      0      0      0      4     11      8      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 75.9     30.3   35.3       1800    180       0      0      2      2      9     71     85     10      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 87.2     30.0   33.1
 2300      7       0      0      0      0      0      3      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 100.0    30.3      -       1900    155       0      0      0      5      9     73     58      8      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 85.8     29.4   33.1
07-19   2463       0      6     17     34    218   1226    829    127      5      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 84.7     29.0   32.7       2000     62       0      0      0      0      9     25     24      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 91.9     29.5   32.2
06-22   2752       0      6     17     38    238   1375    935    136      6      1      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 85.2     29.0   32.7       2100     42       0      0      0      0      1     19     17      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 88.1     30.6   34.2
06-00   2788       0      6     17     38    242   1389    947    142      6      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 85.1     29.0   32.7       2200     17       0      0      0      0      3      5      6      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 64.7     30.3   34.0
00-00   2813       0      6     17     39    244   1397    959    144      6      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 84.9     29.0   32.7       2300      9       0      0      0      0      0      3      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 100.0    31.2      -
                                                                                                                                                      07-19   2291       0      6     32     22    186   1028    877    128     12      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 83.5     29.3   32.9
Peak step 7:00 (292) AM Peak step 7:00 (292) PM Peak step 15:00 (253)                                                                                 06-22   2584       0      6     32     28    205   1158    992    148     15      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 83.5     29.4   32.9
                                                                                                                                                      06-00   2610       0      6     32     28    208   1166   1003    152     15      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 83.4     29.4   33.1
* Grand Total                                                                                                                                         00-00   2624       0      6     33     31    208   1170   1007    154     15      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 83.2     29.4   33.1
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85      Peak step 14:00 (242) AM Peak step 8:00 (233) PM Peak step 14:00 (242)
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
   --    8447      4     14     67    124    782   4116   2890    419     28      3      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 84.3     29.0   32.7

In profile:       Vehicles = 8447 / 22245 (37.97%)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-2719 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-2722 Page 1

* Wednesday, May 05, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                   0
                   5
                          5
                         10
                                10
                                15
                                       15
                                       20
                                              20
                                              25
                                                     25
                                                     30
                                                            30
                                                            35
                                                                   35
                                                                   40
                                                                          40
                                                                          45
                                                                                 45
                                                                                 50
                                                                                        50
                                                                                        55
                                                                                               55
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                             65
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                          10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Report
 0000      2       0      0      0      0      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 100.0    32.4      -
 0100      3       0      0      0      0      0      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.5 100.0    28.6      -
 0200      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 100.0    32.3      -
 0300      3       0      0      0      0      1      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.5 66.7     30.1      -      Datasets:
 0400      3       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.6 66.7     34.6      -      Site:                    [3E] EB COVINGTON RD W/O GRANT RD
 0500      4       0      0      0      0      0      1      2      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 75.0     34.0      -
 0600     40       0      0      0      1      1     21     14      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 87.5     29.8   33.1      Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0700    189       0      0      1      1     12     91     75      8      0      0      0      1      0      0      0 25.7 89.9     29.8   32.4
 0800    206       0      0      2      5     26    110     53     10      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 85.0     28.1   31.5      Profile:
 0900    128       0      0      1      1     11     57     48     10      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 85.9     29.4   32.2
 1000    119       0      0      1      1      5     60     43      9      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 86.6     29.9   32.9      Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1100    128       0      1      0      1      6     58     54      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 90.6     29.4   32.4      Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1200    179       0      0      4      1      7     79     71     15      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 84.4     29.7   33.3
 1300    126       0      1      0      2      9     57     46     11      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 84.1     29.5   33.3      Direction:               East (bound)
 1400    240       0      0      3      5     20    131     69     10      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 83.8     28.5   32.0      Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1500    196       0     16     13     10     22     59     66      9      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 64.3     26.2   32.9
 1600    245       0      0      5      2     15    125     86     10      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 86.1     29.1   32.7
                                                                                                                                                      Name:                    TDS Standard
 1700    274       0      0      5      4      9     99    136     21      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 86.5     30.1   33.8      Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 1800    179       0      0      1      2      9     81     81      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 93.3     29.6   32.9      Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
 1900    152       0      0      0      0     11     69     63      8      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 90.1     29.9   33.1
 2000     69       0      0      0      0      7     36     23      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 88.4     29.0   32.2
 2100    117       0      0      0      1      3     72     33      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 90.6     29.3   31.8      Column Legend:
 2200     36       0      0      0      1      4     16     10      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.9 77.8     30.1   34.4      0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
 2300      6       0      0      0      0      0      1      4      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0 22.6 83.3     35.0      -
07-19   2209       0     18     36     35    151   1007    828    126      7      0      0      1      0      0      0 25.1 83.3     29.1   32.9      1 [Total]                Number in time step
06-22   2587       0     18     36     37    173   1205    961    147      9      0      0      1      0      0      0 25.1 83.9     29.1   32.9      2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
06-00   2629       0     18     36     38    177   1222    975    151     10      0      1      1      0      0      0 24.4 83.8     29.2   32.9
00-00   2645       0     18     36     38    178   1227    981    154     11      0      1      1      0      0      0 24.4 83.7     29.2   32.9
                                                                                                                                                      3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                                                                                                                                                      4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
Peak step 17:00 (274) AM Peak step 8:00 (206) PM Peak step 17:00 (274)                                                                                5 [Mean]                 Average speed
* Thursday, May 06, 2010
                                                                                                                                                      6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0000      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -      * Tuesday, May 04, 2010
 0100      1       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 13.6 100.0    23.7      -       Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
 0200      2       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 100.0    33.1      -                         0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
 0300      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -                         5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0400      3       0      0      0      0      1      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 29.1 66.7     31.4      -       0000      2       0      0      0      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.0 100.0    28.1      -
 0500      4       0      0      0      1      0      0      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.2 75.0     30.7      -       0100      3       0      0      0      0      2      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 14.3 66.7     26.6      -
 0600     29       0      0      0      0      0     10     16      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 89.7     31.4   34.0       0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0700    178       0      0      2      5     12     91     60      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 86.5     29.0   32.7       0300      2       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 11.2 50.0     28.6      -
 0800    224      12      8      6     22     26     72     64     14      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 63.4     25.5   32.0       0400      5       0      0      0      0      1      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 100.0    28.1      -
 0900    136       0      0      2      1     10     66     46     11      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 84.6     29.4   33.3       0500     19       0      0      0      0      3      7      8      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 84.2     29.1   33.1
 1000    124       0      0      0      1     11     45     65      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 90.3     29.7   32.7       0600     71       0      0      0      1      8     35     23      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 85.9     28.7   31.8
 1100    163       0      0      1      2      9     74     70      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 89.6     29.7   33.1       0700    288       0      0      7     12     50    144     64      7      4      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 76.4     27.3   31.3
 1200    168       0      1      3      1     10     77     62     13      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 82.7     29.6   33.3       0800    326       0      1      9     15     67    140     74     17      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 72.7     27.4   32.0
 1300    139       0      0      1      2      8     55     64      8      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 88.5     29.7   32.7       0900    184       0      0      0      4     30     71     60     17      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 75.0     29.1   33.3
 1400    240       0      2      4      4     15    108     92     14      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 84.2     29.2   33.1       1000    135       0      0      1      0     23     56     44      9      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 75.6     29.1   33.6
 1500    241       0      5      6      5     13    110     85     15      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 82.2     28.5   32.4       1100    137       0      0      1      2     22     62     45      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 83.9     28.4   32.2
 1600    229       0      1      2      2     13    114     92      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 91.3     29.2   32.4       1200    178       0      0      3      4     21     86     54      9      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 79.2     28.7   32.9
 1700    313       0      1      6      3     25    145    119     14      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 85.9     29.0   32.4       1300    141       0      1      0      6     27     68     34      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 79.4     27.8   32.0
 1800    189       0      0      4      1     17     84     72     11      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 87.3     29.3   32.4       1400    190       0      1      1      4     31     96     51      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 85.8     28.0   31.8
 1900    126       0      0      2      0      8     55     56      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 88.1     29.5   32.7       1500    235       0      0      0      4     47    118     63      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 82.6     27.7   31.3
 2000     80       0      0      0      0     11     36     28      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 90.0     29.1   32.0       1600    222       0      1      5      9     38     97     53     17      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 71.2     28.0   33.6
 2100     39       0      0      0      0      1     17     20      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 97.4     30.4   33.6       1700    221       0      1      0      3     30    119     56     12      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 83.3     28.4   32.0
 2200     18       0      0      1      0      2      3      9      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 72.2     30.4   34.4       1800    165       0      0      1      1     13     63     75      9      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 85.5     29.9   33.3
 2300      6       0      0      0      0      0      0      5      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 30.4 100.0    33.9      -       1900    144       0      0      1      1     20     75     40      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 84.7     28.3   32.2
07-19   2344      12     18     37     49    169   1041    891    121      5      1      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 83.1     28.9   32.7       2000     94       0      0      0      4     12     45     28      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 85.1     28.4   31.5
06-22   2618      12     18     39     49    189   1159   1011    135      5      1      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 83.5     29.0   32.7       2100     50       0      0      0      1      5     25     19      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 90.0     28.7   32.4
06-00   2642      12     18     40     49    191   1162   1025    138      6      1      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 83.4     29.0   32.9       2200     23       0      0      0      0      2     12      6      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 87.0     30.0   32.9
00-00   2652      12     18     40     50    193   1162   1028    142      6      1      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 83.2     29.0   32.9       2300      5       0      0      0      0      1      1      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 80.0     28.8      -
                                                                                                                                                      07-19   2422       0      5     28     64    399   1120    673    115     18      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 77.5     28.2   32.4
Peak step 17:00 (313) AM Peak step 8:00 (224) PM Peak step 17:00 (313)                                                                                06-22   2781       0      5     29     71    444   1300    783    130     19      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 78.5     28.2   32.4
                                                                                                                                                      06-00   2809       0      5     29     71    447   1313    792    133     19      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 78.5     28.2   32.4
* Grand Total                                                                                                                                         00-00   2840       0      5     29     71    454   1324    803    135     19      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 78.4     28.2   32.4
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85      Peak step 8:00 (326) AM Peak step 8:00 (326) PM Peak step 15:00 (235)
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
   --    7921     12     42    109    119    579   3559   3016    450     32      1      1      1      0      0      0 24.6 83.3     29.2   32.9

In profile:       Vehicles = 7921 / 22245 (35.61%)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-2722 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-2721 Page 1

* Wednesday, May 05, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                   0
                   5
                          5
                         10
                                10
                                15
                                       15
                                       20
                                              20
                                              25
                                                     25
                                                     30
                                                            30
                                                            35
                                                                   35
                                                                   40
                                                                          40
                                                                          45
                                                                                 45
                                                                                 50
                                                                                        50
                                                                                        55
                                                                                               55
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                             65
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                          10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Report
 0000      3       0      0      0      0      0      0      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 100.0    32.5      -
 0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0200      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.3 100.0    28.3      -
 0300      5       0      0      0      0      1      1      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 60.0     30.7      -      Datasets:
 0400      2       0      0      0      0      1      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 13.0 50.0     28.9      -      Site:                    [3W] WB COVINGTON RD W/O GRANT RD
 0500     22       0      0      0      0      7      7      7      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 77.3     28.3   32.2
 0600     47       0      0      0      1      4     18     20      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 83.0     29.7   33.3      Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0700    215       0      0      0      4     39     74     85     11      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 76.3     29.0   33.1
 0800    353       0      0      6     21     72    170     77      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 77.3     26.9   31.1      Profile:
 0900    175       0      0      0      3     16     77     62     17      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 83.4     29.5   32.9
 1000    150       0      0      1      4     27     59     52      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 82.0     28.2   32.2      Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1100    131       0      0      2      0     17     66     35      8      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 81.7     29.0   32.4      Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1200    172       0      0      0      2     24     77     59      7      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 82.0     29.1   32.9
 1300    130       0      0      2      1     22     61     32     11      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 79.2     28.5   33.6      Direction:               West (bound)
 1400    208       0      0      0      5     33    118     44      7      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 85.1     27.8   30.9      Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1500    230       0      0      3     14     33    118     51     10      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 77.4     27.6   31.8
 1600    261       0      1      0      5     37    148     63      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 84.7     28.1   31.8
                                                                                                                                                      Name:                    TDS Standard
 1700    208       0      1      2      3     34     88     70      8      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 81.7     28.4   32.2      Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 1800    235       0      0      0      4     23    117     85      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 88.1     28.8   32.0      Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
 1900    163       0      1      0      3     19     87     45      7      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 83.4     28.7   32.2
 2000     69       0      0      0      0      2     39     22      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 89.9     29.9   33.3
 2100     81       0      0      0      2     10     39     27      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 86.4     28.8   32.4      Column Legend:
 2200     57       0      0      0      1      4     33     15      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 89.5     28.9   32.0      0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
 2300     11       0      0      0      0      2      6      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 90.9     28.4   30.9
07-19   2468       0      2     16     66    377   1173    715    104     14      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 80.2     28.3   32.0      1 [Total]                Number in time step
06-22   2828       0      3     16     72    412   1356    829    122     16      2      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 80.8     28.4   32.2      2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
06-00   2896       0      3     16     73    418   1395    846    127     16      2      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 80.9     28.4   32.2
00-00   2929       0      3     16     73    427   1404    859    128     17      2      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 80.7     28.4   32.2
                                                                                                                                                      3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                                                                                                                                                      4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
Peak step 8:00 (353) AM Peak step 8:00 (353) PM Peak step 16:00 (261)                                                                                 5 [Mean]                 Average speed
* Thursday, May 06, 2010
                                                                                                                                                      6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0000      5       0      0      0      0      1      1      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 80.0     30.1      -      * Tuesday, May 04, 2010
 0100      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 100.0    32.8      -       Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
 0200      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.3 100.0    28.3      -                         0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
 0300      3       0      0      0      0      0      0      2      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 30.0 100.0    36.0      -                         5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0400      5       0      0      0      0      1      1      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 80.0     30.2      -       0000      1       0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   6.0 100.0   16.0      -
 0500     17       0      0      0      0      3      7      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 88.2     28.8   32.7       0100      2       0      0      0      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.6 100.0    26.9      -
 0600     42       0      0      0      0      2     21     14      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 83.3     29.8   33.1       0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0700    275       0      0      3     20     48    126     67      9      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 77.8     27.4   31.8       0300      4       0      0      0      0      1      2      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 75.0     29.1      -
 0800    319       0      0      0     14     57    155     75     16      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 76.8     27.8   31.8       0400      2       0      0      0      0      1      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 100.0    28.5      -
 0900    192       0      0      0      2     35     91     54      8      1      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 81.3     28.5   32.7       0500      8       0      0      0      1      0      3      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 87.5     29.8      -
 1000    151       0      0      3      2     14     81     47      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 87.4     28.2   32.0       0600     49       0      0      0      0      4     20     19      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 85.7     30.7   33.6
 1100    159       1      1      0      1     18     84     50      2      1      0      0      1      0      0      0 24.4 88.7     28.6   31.3       0700    195       0      0      0      1      3     92     81     18      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 90.3     30.3   33.8
 1200    169       0      0      1      2     17     89     47     13      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 87.6     28.8   32.0       0800    220       0      0      1      2     20     96     88     11      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 84.1     29.6   33.1
 1300    161       0      0      0      5     26     67     59      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 83.2     28.4   32.0       0900    146       0      0      1      2      9     69     50     14      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 82.9     30.0   33.6
 1400    190       0      0      2      7     25     86     57     12      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 77.4     28.3   32.7       1000    122       0      0      1      0     12     50     52      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 86.1     29.6   32.9
 1500    204       0      0      1      6     50     98     46      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 84.3     27.4   31.3       1100    160       0      1      0      3      3     64     74     13      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 89.4     30.6   33.8
 1600    198       0      0      1      1     25    116     47      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 90.4     28.3   31.3       1200    195       0      0      1      4      8     85     78     17      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 84.6     30.0   33.3
 1700    265       0      0      0      5     53    136     61      9      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 84.5     27.9   31.8       1300    116       0      0      2      1      6     43     53     11      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 83.6     30.0   33.8
 1800    179       0      0      0      3     22     84     58     12      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 81.6     29.0   32.7       1400    253       0      0      3      0     19    121     88     20      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 83.0     29.4   33.3
 1900    151       0      0      0      4     19     75     48      3      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 82.1     28.7   32.0       1500    218       0      1      2      1     33     92     78     11      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 80.3     28.8   32.7
 2000     84       0      0      0      0     16     43     21      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 82.1     28.5   32.2       1600    225       0      0      0      1     14    101     86     22      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 83.6     30.1   34.0
 2100     54       0      0      1      0      2     22     22      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 83.3     30.0   33.3       1700    249       0      0      1      0     11     86    123     27      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.2 87.6     30.8   34.4
 2200     38       0      0      0      0      1     20     11      5      0      0      0      0      1      0      0 24.6 81.6     30.9   34.9       1800    214       0      0      3      1     14     83     93     15      5      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 83.2     30.2   33.8
 2300      8       0      0      0      0      1      3      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.3 87.5     28.8      -       1900    128       0      0      0      2      9     43     59     14      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.2 83.6     30.6   34.4
07-19   2462       1      1     11     68    390   1213    668     99      9      1      0      1      0      0      0 23.3 81.6     28.1   32.0       2000     67       0      0      0      0      9     32     19      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 83.6     29.6   32.7
06-22   2793       1      1     12     72    429   1374    773    116     13      1      0      1      0      0      0 23.3 81.3     28.2   32.0       2100     49       0      0      0      0      2     22     17      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 79.6     30.7   35.6
06-00   2839       1      1     12     72    431   1397    788    121     13      1      0      1      1      0      0 23.3 81.3     28.3   32.0       2200     18       0      0      1      0      0      9      5      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 83.3     30.2   33.8
00-00   2871       1      1     12     72    436   1407    802    123     14      1      0      1      1      0      0 23.3 81.2     28.3   32.0       2300     10       0      0      0      0      0      4      4      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 90.0     31.6      -
                                                                                                                                                      07-19   2313       0      2     15     16    152    982    944    186     16      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 83.8     30.0   33.6
Peak step 8:00 (319) AM Peak step 8:00 (319) PM Peak step 17:00 (265)                                                                                 06-22   2606       0      2     15     18    176   1099   1058    217     21      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 83.3     30.0   33.8
                                                                                                                                                      06-00   2634       0      2     16     18    176   1112   1067    220     23      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 83.2     30.0   33.8
* Grand Total                                                                                                                                         00-00   2651       0      2     16     20    178   1119   1071    222     23      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 83.1     30.0   33.8
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85      Peak step 14:00 (253) AM Peak step 8:00 (220) PM Peak step 14:00 (253)
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
   --    8640      1      9     57    216   1317   4135   2464    386     50      3      0      1      1      0      0 23.5 79.9     28.3   32.2

In profile:       Vehicles = 8640 / 22757 (37.97%)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-2721 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-2723 Page 1

* Wednesday, May 05, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                   0
                   5
                          5
                         10
                                10
                                15
                                       15
                                       20
                                              20
                                              25
                                                     25
                                                     30
                                                            30
                                                            35
                                                                   35
                                                                   40
                                                                          40
                                                                          45
                                                                                 45
                                                                                 50
                                                                                        50
                                                                                        55
                                                                                               55
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                             65
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                          10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Report
 0000      2       0      0      0      0      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 100.0    32.2      -
 0100      3       0      0      0      0      0      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 100.0    28.8      -
 0200      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.0 100.0    30.9      -
 0300      3       0      0      0      1      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 66.7     29.1      -      Datasets:
 0400      2       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.4 50.0     33.1      -      Site:                    [4N] NB MIRAMONTE AVE N/O COVINGTON RD
 0500      9       0      0      0      0      0      0      8      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 88.9     32.9      -
 0600     43       0      0      0      1      3     20     15      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 86.0     29.6   32.2      Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0700    181       0      0      1      3     12     69     81     12      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 85.6     30.1   33.6
 0800    203       0      0      1      3     13     98     78      9      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 87.2     29.3   32.9      Profile:
 0900    113       0      0      1      1     13     47     48      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 87.6     29.0   32.4
 1000    121       0      0      0      3      6     56     46     10      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 86.0     29.6   33.6      Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1100    134       0      0      1      4     16     55     50      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 79.1     28.9   32.9      Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1200    181       0      0      3      2      6     75     76     17      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 86.7     30.1   33.8
 1300    110       0      0      0      1      9     39     50     11      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 81.8     30.2   34.2      Direction:               North (bound)
 1400    270       0      0      3      5     15     98    118     30      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 81.5     30.1   34.0      Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1500    195       0      0      4      0     18     83     73     17      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 80.0     29.5   33.8
 1600    246       0      0      1      3     10    101    110     19      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 86.6     30.3   33.3
                                                                                                                                                      Name:                    TDS Standard
 1700    292       0      0      2      2     15    116    134     23      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 86.6     30.1   33.6      Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 1800    203       0      0      0      2     10     79     91     20      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 84.2     30.4   34.0      Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
 1900    178       0      0      0      2     19     74     73     10      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 83.1     29.4   33.3
 2000     78       0      0      0      0      2     35     31     10      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 87.2     30.4   34.2
 2100    115       0      0      0      5      6     59     37      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 84.3     29.1   32.9      Column Legend:
 2200     26       0      0      0      0      0      8     13      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.2 88.5     31.8   34.9      0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
 2300      6       0      0      0      0      0      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 100.0    29.7      -
07-19   2249       0      0     17     29    143    916    955    178     11      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 83.5     29.9   33.6      1 [Total]                Number in time step
06-22   2663       0      0     17     37    173   1104   1111    210     11      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 83.4     29.8   33.6      2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
06-00   2695       0      0     17     37    173   1116   1126    214     12      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 83.5     29.8   33.6
00-00   2715       0      0     17     38    173   1119   1140    215     13      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 83.5     29.9   33.6
                                                                                                                                                      3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                                                                                                                                                      4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
Peak step 17:00 (292) AM Peak step 8:00 (203) PM Peak step 17:00 (292)                                                                                5 [Mean]                 Average speed
* Thursday, May 06, 2010
                                                                                                                                                      6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0000      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -      * Tuesday, May 04, 2010
 0100      1       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 12.8 100.0    22.6      -       Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
 0200      3       0      0      0      0      0      0      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 100.0    30.9      -                         0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
 0300      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.2 100.0    29.3      -                         5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0400      6       0      0      0      0      2      1      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 66.7     28.8      -       0000      6       0      0      2      0      0      1      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 66.7     25.0      -
 0500     11       0      0      0      2      1      2      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 72.7     27.9   31.8       0100      5       0      0      0      1      0      2      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 80.0     28.2      -
 0600     36       0      0      0      0      6     11     17      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 80.6     29.9   33.6       0200      2       0      0      0      1      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   6.0 50.0    27.0      -
 0700    175       0      0      1      5     13     77     63     16      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 81.7     29.5   33.1       0300      2       0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.0 100.0    25.1      -
 0800    233       0      0      2      3     24    100     86     17      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 83.3     29.3   32.9       0400      5       0      0      0      0      0      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 100.0    29.3      -
 0900    134       0      0      1      3     12     59     51      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 84.3     29.4   33.3       0500     30       0      0      1      1      3     16      7      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 80.0     28.2   32.9
 1000    117       0      0      1      3      7     43     61      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 89.7     29.4   32.4       0600    114       0      0      0      1      9     62     41      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 90.4     28.8   31.3
 1100    167       0      0      0      0     16     68     72     10      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 86.2     29.9   33.3       0700    445       0      0      0      1     26    267    146      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 94.8     29.0   31.5
 1200    173       0      0      3      1     18     70     61     19      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 76.9     29.5   33.8       0800    569       0      0      2     10     60    286    197     14      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 87.9     28.8   32.0
 1300    140       0      0      1      2     13     55     62      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 85.7     29.6   32.7       0900    384       0      1      3      1     34    223    114      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 88.8     28.6   31.5
 1400    249       0      0      2      1     17     90    121     18      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 86.7     30.2   33.6       1000    321       0      1      3      1     19    176    113      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 90.3     29.0   32.2
 1500    224       0      2      5      2     27     98     73     17      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 76.8     28.8   32.9       1100    301       0      1      2      7     12    155    113     11      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 91.0     29.0   32.0
 1600    218       0      1      0      2     15    109     76     14      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 85.8     29.7   33.3       1200    317       0      1      0      5     21    172    106     12      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 89.3     28.9   32.0
 1700    254       0      0      1      2     18    108     99     24      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 84.3     30.2   34.2       1300    301       0      0      2      7     21    175     88      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 89.4     28.7   31.5
 1800    228       0      0      1      1      9     89    104     24      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 87.3     30.4   33.8       1400    367       2      2     14     12     33    177    112     14      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 80.4     28.0   32.2
 1900    129       0      0      2      0      9     57     48     13      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 85.3     29.8   33.8       1500    321       3      3      9     13     41    153     91      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 78.8     27.4   31.8
 2000     77       0      0      0      0      6     27     34      8      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 81.8     30.7   34.0       1600    381       9      4      2      6     22    205    121     10      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 87.7     28.2   32.0
 2100     41       0      0      0      0      3     15     19      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 87.8     30.1   33.3       1700    261      10      9      2     14     30    125     66      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 78.5     26.2   31.1
 2200     25       0      0      1      1      4      3     11      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 28.0 72.0     30.1   35.6       1800    291       0      1      3     14     21    145     96     11      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 83.5     28.4   32.0
 2300      6       0      0      0      0      0      2      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 100.0    31.8      -       1900    211       0      0      3     10     21    102     70      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 84.8     28.0   31.3
07-19   2312       0      3     18     25    189    966    929    176      6      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 82.7     29.7   33.6       2000    111       0      0      2      2     12     66     28      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 91.0     28.0   31.1
06-22   2595       0      3     20     25    213   1076   1047    202      9      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 82.6     29.7   33.6       2100     76       0      0      0      1      7     35     30      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 85.5     29.4   33.6
06-00   2626       0      3     21     26    217   1081   1061    208      9      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 82.3     29.8   33.6       2200     29       0      0      0      1      4     10     12      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 79.3     29.3   34.0
00-00   2648       0      3     21     28    221   1085   1072    209      9      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 82.2     29.7   33.6       2300     22       0      0      0      2      4      8      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 77.3     27.9   33.1
                                                                                                                                                      07-19   4259      24     23     42     91    340   2259   1363    114      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 86.4     28.4   32.0
Peak step 17:00 (254) AM Peak step 8:00 (233) PM Peak step 17:00 (254)                                                                                06-22   4771      24     23     47    105    389   2524   1532    124      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 86.3     28.4   31.8
                                                                                                                                                      06-00   4822      24     23     47    108    397   2542   1551    127      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 86.1     28.4   31.8
* Grand Total                                                                                                                                         00-00   4872      24     23     50    111    401   2566   1563    130      4      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 86.0     28.4   31.8
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85      Peak step 8:00 (569) AM Peak step 8:00 (569) PM Peak step 16:00 (381)
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
   --    8014      0      5     54     86    572   3323   3283    646     45      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 82.7     29.9   33.6

In profile:       Vehicles = 8014 / 22757 (35.22%)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-2723 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-2724 Page 1

* Wednesday, May 05, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                   0
                   5
                          5
                         10
                                10
                                15
                                       15
                                       20
                                              20
                                              25
                                                     25
                                                     30
                                                            30
                                                            35
                                                                   35
                                                                   40
                                                                          40
                                                                          45
                                                                                 45
                                                                                 50
                                                                                        50
                                                                                        55
                                                                                               55
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                             65
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                          10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Report
 0000      7       0      0      0      1      0      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 85.7     27.0      -
 0100      7       0      0      0      0      1      3      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.5 71.4     29.5      -
 0200      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.3 100.0    28.3      -
 0300      3       0      0      0      0      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 100.0    26.7      -      Datasets:
 0400      7       0      0      0      0      1      4      1      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 71.4     30.3      -      Site:                    [4S] SB MIRAMONTE AVE N/O COVINGTON RD
 0500     28       0      0      1      1      3     11     11      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 78.6     28.2   32.4
 0600    113       0      0      2      3      9     59     35      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 84.1     28.5   31.5      Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0700    566       0      0      0      4     43    287    215     14      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 90.6     29.3   32.2
 0800    374       0      0      1      5     45    196    118      9      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 87.2     28.5   31.8      Profile:
 0900    409       0      1      1      2     36    210    134     24      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 86.6     29.1   32.7
 1000    303       0      0      2      9     25    170     89      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 88.1     28.4   31.8      Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1100    308       0      1      1      6     23    160    105     11      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 88.3     28.9   32.2      Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1200    325       0      0      1      8     24    157    119     15      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 85.5     29.1   32.2
 1300    298       0      0      2      5     23    156     99     12      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 87.2     28.9   31.8      Direction:               South (bound)
 1400    337       2      4      4     15     30    178     94     10      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 83.1     27.8   31.5      Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1500    305       4      2      4     14     38    131     99      9      3      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 78.4     27.9   32.2
 1600    341       4      3      7     14     25    167    113      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 83.6     27.9   31.8
                                                                                                                                                      Name:                    TDS Standard
 1700    329       6      8      4     15     33    157    100      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 80.2     27.2   31.5      Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 1800    277       3      3      1     15     25    136     79     15      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 79.8     27.8   32.0      Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
 1900    263       0      0      2     14     19    134     82     11      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 85.9     28.6   32.0
 2000    140       0      0      1      2     13     81     39      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 87.9     28.5   31.8
 2100    115       0      0      0      5     15     63     31      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 88.7     28.0   31.5      Column Legend:
 2200     48       0      0      1      1      3     24     14      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 83.3     29.0   32.9      0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
 2300     15       0      0      0      0      2      5      6      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.5 80.0     29.6   32.7
07-19   4172      19     22     28    112    370   2105   1364    140     11      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 84.9     28.5   32.0      1 [Total]                Number in time step
06-22   4803      19     22     33    136    426   2442   1551    161     12      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 85.0     28.5   32.0      2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
06-00   4866      19     22     34    137    431   2471   1571    168     12      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 84.9     28.5   32.0
00-00   4919      19     22     35    139    437   2497   1586    170     12      2      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 84.8     28.5   32.0
                                                                                                                                                      3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                                                                                                                                                      4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
Peak step 7:00 (566) AM Peak step 7:00 (566) PM Peak step 16:00 (341)                                                                                 5 [Mean]                 Average speed
* Thursday, May 06, 2010
                                                                                                                                                      6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0000      7       0      0      1      0      1      1      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 71.4     27.6      -      * Tuesday, May 04, 2010
 0100      5       0      0      0      0      3      1      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.5 80.0     25.7      -       Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
 0200      3       0      0      0      0      0      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 100.0    28.5      -                         0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
 0300      2       0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.5 100.0    25.6      -                         5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0400      7       0      0      0      0      2      3      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 100.0    26.6      -       0000      6       0      0      0      0      2      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 100.0    26.9      -
 0500     26       0      0      1      0      4      7     14      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 80.8     28.9   32.7       0100      4       0      0      0      0      1      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 100.0    27.8      -
 0600    113       0      0      1      1      6     64     38      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 92.0     28.9   32.0       0200      2       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.5 100.0    35.5      -
 0700    427       1      0      1      1     25    224    162     13      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 90.6     29.3   32.4       0300      6       0      0      0      2      1      1      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 13.4 50.0     24.9      -
 0800    534       0      0      2      9     35    307    170     10      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 89.5     28.7   31.8       0400      6       0      1      0      0      0      2      1      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 50.0     30.1      -
 0900    411       0      1      2     10     28    215    138     16      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 87.8     28.9   32.0       0500     20       0      0      0      2      2      6      8      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 75.0     28.9   33.1
 1000    291       0      0      0      5     20    155    102      9      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 89.7     29.2   32.2       0600     69       0      0      1      1      3     34     18     11      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 75.4     30.2   35.6
 1100    320       0      0      1      3     28    154    121     12      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 88.4     29.1   32.0       0700    232      12      5      6     32     44     81     48      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 62.1     24.1   30.4
 1200    329       1      0      5      6     26    164    114     10      2      1      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 87.2     28.7   32.2       0800    335      35     20     13     28     77    118     40      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 60.9     21.8   29.8
 1300    312       0      0      3      7     27    174     98      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 89.7     28.3   31.5       0900    213       0      1      6      9     28    107     52     10      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 78.4     27.4   31.3
 1400    402       2      1     12     21     54    204     99      9      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 80.1     27.1   31.3       1000    254       0      0      2     10     31    127     74     10      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 80.3     28.3   32.2
 1500    367       3      4      8     14     41    175    112     10      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 79.8     27.6   32.2       1100    293       0      1      0     12     51    141     80      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 80.9     27.9   32.0
 1600    338       0      1      2      7     20    179    122      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 90.8     28.8   31.8       1200    315       0      1      0     10     59    153     82     10      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 80.0     27.7   31.5
 1700    274       4      8      8     24     27    124     73      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 73.7     26.4   31.5       1300    307       0      0      2     12     45    149     86     12      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 79.5     28.2   32.2
 1800    258       5      3      4      9     17    134     76     10      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 82.9     27.7   31.5       1400    385      36     20     24     48     86    115     49      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.5 53.8     21.8   29.8
 1900    238       0      0      3     14     25    116     70     10      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 82.8     28.1   31.5       1500    372     133     41     15     35     51     65     24      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   1.1 47.0    15.0   27.1
 2000    127       0      0      2      3     11     69     39      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 87.4     28.5   32.0       1600    483     115     65     33     52     79    101     33      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   2.7 39.5    16.7   28.2
 2100     91       0      0      1      1     10     46     30      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 86.8     28.7   31.8       1700    556     235    250     22     22     10     15      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   1.8 89.6     7.1    8.3
 2200     47       0      0      0      0      1     25     19      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 93.6     29.9   32.7       1800    513      14     75     49     60    140    121     50      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 51.3     20.5   28.9
 2300     19       0      0      0      0      1     10      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 94.7     29.5   31.5       1900    347       0      0      8     17     78    170     66      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.9 79.3     26.8   30.9
07-19   4263      16     18     48    116    348   2209   1387    115      5      1      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 85.7     28.4   32.0       2000    251       0      0      3     13     52    119     58      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 76.1     27.2   31.5
06-22   4832      16     18     55    135    400   2504   1564    133      6      1      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 85.7     28.4   32.0       2100    157       0      0      0      1     26     77     46      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 83.4     28.8   32.4
06-00   4898      16     18     55    135    402   2539   1590    135      7      1      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 85.8     28.4   32.0       2200     56       0      0      1      1      0     28     19      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 85.7     29.8   34.0
00-00   4948      16     18     57    135    413   2554   1611    136      7      1      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 85.6     28.4   32.0       2300     14       0      1      0      0      1     10      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 92.9     27.1   29.5
                                                                                                                                                      07-19   4258     580    479    172    330    701   1293    620     82      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.9 51.1     20.7   30.2
Peak step 8:00 (534) AM Peak step 8:00 (534) PM Peak step 14:00 (402)                                                                                 06-22   5082     580    479    184    362    860   1693    808    112      4      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.9 55.1     21.8   30.4
                                                                                                                                                      06-00   5152     580    480    185    363    861   1731    829    119      4      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 55.3     21.9   30.6
* Grand Total                                                                                                                                         00-00   5196     580    481    185    367    867   1745    842    123      6      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 55.4     21.9   30.6
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85      Peak step 17:00 (556) AM Peak step 8:00 (335) PM Peak step 17:00 (556)
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
   --   14739     59     63    142    385   1251   7617   4760    436     23      3      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 85.4     28.4   32.0

In profile:       Vehicles = 14739 / 41854 (35.22%)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-2724 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-2725 Page 1

* Wednesday, May 05, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                   0
                   5
                          5
                         10
                                10
                                15
                                       15
                                       20
                                              20
                                              25
                                                     25
                                                     30
                                                            30
                                                            35
                                                                   35
                                                                   40
                                                                          40
                                                                          45
                                                                                 45
                                                                                 50
                                                                                        50
                                                                                        55
                                                                                               55
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                             65
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                          10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Report
 0000     13       0      0      0      0      3      5      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 84.6     28.9   32.4
 0100      7       0      0      0      0      2      2      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 71.4     30.1      -
 0200      2       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 32.7 100.0    40.9      -
 0300      4       0      0      0      1      1      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 13.4 50.0     28.4      -      Datasets:
 0400      5       0      0      0      0      0      0      3      1      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 26.8 80.0     35.7      -      Site:                    [5N] NB MIRAMONTE AVE S/O COVINGTON RD
 0500     22       0      0      0      1      3      4      7      2      4      1      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 54.5     32.4   41.6
 0600     62       0      0      1      0      5     19     29      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 28.4 80.6     30.4   34.4      Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0700    251       0      0      1     12     52    125     50      9      1      1      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 76.9     27.4   31.8
 0800    333      47     18      8     37     69    113     37      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.5 57.1     21.3   29.3      Profile:
 0900    238       7     10      2      5     35    108     62      8      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 74.8     26.7   32.0
 1000    252       0      2      4     11     38    112     71     12      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 78.6     28.1   32.7      Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1100    307       0      0      0      4     55    142     92     13      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 80.1     28.4   32.4      Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1200    344       0      0      3     20     75    157     78     10      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 76.5     27.2   31.5
 1300    324       0      1      4     26     68    137     74     12      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 72.2     26.9   31.5      Direction:               North (bound)
 1400    382      63     78      9     22     63    100     43      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 44.2     18.2   29.5      Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1500    381     112     56      7     12     68     83     35      5      3      0      0      0      0      0      0   1.6 44.9    16.8   29.1
 1600    485      95    113     37     60     74     78     25      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   2.7 45.6    15.4   26.6
                                                                                                                                                      Name:                    TDS Standard
 1700    527     110    125     52     55     77     84     21      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   3.1 47.6    14.6   26.2      Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 1800    551     100    182     62     47     65     65     22      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   3.4 57.0    13.6   25.7      Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
 1900    327       1      1     10     22     68    128     82     14      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 70.3     26.9   32.2
 2000    228       0      0      1      8     43    111     57      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 78.1     27.8   32.2
 2100    240       0      0      0     10     47    119     56      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 83.8     27.6   31.1      Column Legend:
 2200     78       0      0      1      2     12     29     28      4      1      1      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 76.9     29.1   33.6      0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
 2300     19       0      0      0      0      1      8      4      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 78.9     31.7   35.6
07-19   4375     534    585    189    311    739   1304    610     91     11      1      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 50.1     20.6   30.2      1 [Total]                Number in time step
06-22   5232     535    586    201    351    902   1681    834    128     13      1      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 53.9     21.7   30.6      2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
06-00   5329     535    586    202    353    915   1718    866    136     16      2      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 54.1     21.9   30.6
00-00   5382     535    586    202    355    924   1729    881    145     21      4      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 54.1     22.0   30.9
                                                                                                                                                      3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                                                                                                                                                      4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
Peak step 18:00 (551) AM Peak step 8:00 (333) PM Peak step 18:00 (551)                                                                                5 [Mean]                 Average speed
* Thursday, May 06, 2010
                                                                                                                                                      6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0000     14       0      0      0      0      3      4      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 85.7     29.6   34.2      * Tuesday, May 04, 2010
 0100      6       0      0      0      1      0      2      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 83.3     28.5      -       Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
 0200      4       0      0      0      0      2      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 75.0     26.8      -                         0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
 0300      5       0      0      0      1      1      1      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.3 60.0     27.4      -                         5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0400      7       0      0      0      1      0      1      2      1      1      1      0      0      0      0      0 26.4 57.1     34.2      -       0000      4       0      0      0      0      0      2      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.5 100.0    31.9      -
 0500     17       0      0      1      0      3      2      4      5      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 28.2 58.8     31.2   37.8       0100      5       0      0      1      0      0      1      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 60.0     29.2      -
 0600     66       0      0      0      2      3     23     25     13      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.1 75.8     31.0   36.2       0200      2       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 28.4 100.0    34.3      -
 0700    229      23      9     10     15     41     73     52      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 58.5     23.5   31.5       0300      3       0      0      1      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.4 66.7     22.9      -
 0800    313      61      8     10     42     66     90     35      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.5 52.4     20.1   29.3       0400      3       0      0      0      0      0      0      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 100.0    32.2      -
 0900    229       0      0      2      9     40    119     53      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 81.7     27.6   31.3       0500     18       0      0      1      0      1      7      6      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.6 77.8     29.5   34.2
 1000    284       0      0      1      5     43    141     76     18      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 81.3     28.5   32.0       0600     91       0      0      0      0      5     25     51      8      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 86.8     31.2   34.4
 1100    315      11      4      6     12     42    133     94     13      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 75.2     27.0   32.2       0700    351       2      6      8     14     26    155    118     20      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 78.1     28.3   33.3
 1200    323       2      4     16     31     57    134     70      7      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 69.7     25.9   31.3       0800    415      20     41     15     20     39    147    115     16      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 65.1     24.5   31.8
 1300    300       0      1     14     14     51    130     83      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 75.3     27.0   31.8       0900    316       0      0      3      3     30    137    120     22      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 82.6     29.4   32.9
 1400    396      17     54     36     66     74    100     43      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 45.7     20.5   29.3       1000    280       0      0      1      2      5    137    125      9      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 93.6     29.8   32.7
 1500    395      81     44     25     47     77     79     35      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 40.3     17.8   28.6       1100    257       0      0      1      1     17    107    108     22      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 87.2     30.1   33.3
 1600    433      29     31     20     55     92    137     64      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.0 56.8     22.3   30.0       1200    269       0      1      0      2     17     85    125     38      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.2 82.5     30.7   34.7
 1700    510     268    182     27     16      6      8      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   1.8 92.0     6.4    8.1       1300    254       0      0      2      1     11     86    123     29      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 87.4     30.7   34.2
 1800    471      92     93     27     51     59    102     39      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   2.0 41.2    16.9   28.6       1400    304       0      0      3      3     17    123    128     27      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 85.2     30.1   33.8
 1900    292       0      0      1     12     64    138     68      9      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 79.1     27.4   31.5       1500    311       4     15     10     14     32    109    105     21      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 68.5     27.1   32.9
 2000    220       0      0      0      9     40    105     61      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 82.7     27.8   31.1       1600    364       0      0      3      4      8    131    175     40      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.4 87.6     30.8   34.2
 2100    173       0      0      1      5     29     82     53      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 83.8     28.0   31.5       1700    341       0      0      2      5     13    114    170     37      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.2 87.4     30.6   34.0
 2200     95       0      0      0      0     17     34     39      3      1      0      1      0      0      0      0 24.2 82.1     29.2   32.7       1800    266       0      0      0      4     15     93    132     19      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 85.0     30.4   34.0
 2300     32       0      0      0      0      4     11     13      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 81.3     30.4   33.6       1900    176       0      0      2      6     10     74     72     12      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 84.1     29.4   32.9
07-19   4198     584    430    194    363    648   1246    647     82      4      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 50.6     20.7   30.4       2000     95       0      0      0      3      8     41     33      9      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 82.1     29.6   32.9
06-22   4949     584    430    196    391    784   1594    854    112      4      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 54.8     21.8   30.6       2100     59       0      0      0      2      1     19     27      9      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.6 84.7     31.1   35.3
06-00   5076     584    430    196    391    805   1639    906    119      5      0      1      0      0      0      0 22.6 55.4     22.0   30.9       2200     19       0      0      0      0      0      7      7      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.4 84.2     32.0   35.6
00-00   5129     584    430    197    394    814   1650    923    127      8      1      1      0      0      0      0 22.6 55.4     22.1   30.9       2300     19       0      0      0      0      0      9      5      3      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 78.9     32.0   36.5
                                                                                                                                                      07-19   3728      26     63     48     73    230   1424   1544    300     20      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 80.2     29.2   33.6
Peak step 17:00 (510) AM Peak step 11:00 (315) PM Peak step 17:00 (510)                                                                               06-22   4149      26     63     50     84    254   1583   1727    338     24      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 80.4     29.3   33.6
                                                                                                                                                      06-00   4187      26     63     50     84    254   1599   1739    346     26      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 80.3     29.3   33.6
* Grand Total                                                                                                                                         00-00   4222      26     63     53     84    255   1611   1752    352     26      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 80.3     29.3   33.6
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85      Peak step 8:00 (415) AM Peak step 8:00 (415) PM Peak step 16:00 (364)
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
   --   15707   1699   1497    584   1116   2605   5124   2646    395     35      5      1      0      0      0      0 22.6 54.9     22.0   30.9

In profile:       Vehicles = 15707 / 41854 (37.53%)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-2725 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-2726 Page 1

* Wednesday, May 05, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                   0
                   5
                          5
                         10
                                10
                                15
                                       15
                                       20
                                              20
                                              25
                                                     25
                                                     30
                                                            30
                                                            35
                                                                   35
                                                                   40
                                                                          40
                                                                          45
                                                                                 45
                                                                                 50
                                                                                        50
                                                                                        55
                                                                                               55
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                             65
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                          10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Report
 0000      6       0      0      0      0      0      3      2      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 83.3     31.1      -
 0100      4       0      0      0      0      0      1      2      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 75.0     33.0      -
 0200      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.0 100.0    30.9      -
 0300      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 100.0    31.6      -      Datasets:
 0400      5       0      0      0      0      1      0      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 80.0     30.4      -      Site:                    [5S] SB MIRAMONTE AVE S/O COVINGTON RD
 0500     26       0      0      1      1      3      9      9      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 73.1     29.2   34.7
 0600     89       0      0      0      1      2     28     50      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 88.8     31.1   34.4      Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0700    411       0      0      1      2     24    223    134     25      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 86.9     29.4   33.1
 0800    328      14     36      9     15     53    116     79      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 68.9     23.9   30.9      Profile:
 0900    350       0     10      3      2     27    164    127     15      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 83.4     28.7   32.7
 1000    259       0      0      0      4     21    115    101     17      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 85.3     29.5   33.1      Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1100    267       0      0      3      0      3    111    121     28      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 89.5     30.5   33.8      Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1200    241       0      0      1      1     10     85    116     26      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.4 85.5     30.9   34.2
 1300    249       0      2      1      6     13    105     98     22      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 82.3     29.7   33.3      Direction:               South (bound)
 1400    336       0      0      0      5      9    149    152     19      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 89.3     30.0   33.6      Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1500    269      20     45     17     12     17     75     73      9      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 55.4     22.4   32.2
 1600    341       0      0      3      3     15    118    170     29      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 85.0     30.6   33.8
                                                                                                                                                      Name:                    TDS Standard
 1700    336       0      0      0      2     22    115    151     45      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 83.9     30.7   34.7      Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 1800    287       0      0      0      1      9    102    130     40      4      1      0      0      0      0      0 26.8 85.7     31.2   34.9      Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
 1900    218       0      0      1      5     16     80     95     19      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 81.2     30.1   34.0
 2000    124       0      0      1      0      9     46     51     14      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 81.5     30.6   34.0
 2100     87       0      0      0      2      4     37     34      8      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 85.1     30.3   34.0      Column Legend:
 2200     38       0      0      1      1      1     16     15      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 86.8     29.8   33.6      0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
 2300     15       0      0      0      0      0      4      7      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 86.7     32.7   35.8
07-19   3674      34     93     38     53    223   1478   1452    281     20      2      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 80.2     29.0   33.3      1 [Total]                Number in time step
06-22   4192      34     93     40     61    254   1669   1682    329     28      2      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 80.3     29.1   33.6      2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
06-00   4245      34     93     41     62    255   1689   1704    337     28      2      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 80.3     29.2   33.6
00-00   4288      34     93     42     63    259   1702   1723    339     31      2      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 80.2     29.2   33.6
                                                                                                                                                      3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                                                                                                                                                      4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
Peak step 7:00 (411) AM Peak step 7:00 (411) PM Peak step 16:00 (341)                                                                                 5 [Mean]                 Average speed
* Thursday, May 06, 2010
                                                                                                                                                      6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0000      8       0      0      0      0      0      2      2      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.4 87.5     33.4      -      * Tuesday, May 04, 2010
 0100      5       0      0      0      1      0      1      1      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 40.0     32.0      -       Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
 0200      3       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.6 100.0    34.7      -                         0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
 0300      2       0      0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 100.0    28.3      -                         5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0400      4       0      0      0      0      0      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.0 100.0    29.3      -       0000      4       0      0      0      0      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.6 100.0    26.3      -
 0500     24       0      0      1      0      2      3     15      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.2 83.3     30.6   34.4       0100      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.9 100.0    27.8      -
 0600     85       0      0      0      1      4     29     45      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 87.1     30.5   33.3       0200      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 29.1 100.0    39.0      -
 0700    339       3     18     19     19     38    125     98     18      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 67.3     26.2   32.2       0300      3       0      0      0      0      2      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.5 100.0    26.5      -
 0800    312      56    118     24      7      7     54     43      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0   2.7 60.6    14.9   29.5       0400      5       0      0      0      0      0      1      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.7 100.0    33.1      -
 0900    351       0      0      1      2     20    138    165     23      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 87.2     30.1   33.3       0500     12       0      0      0      0      2      0      7      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 75.0     32.1   35.6
 1000    245       0      0      1      4      8     91    113     25      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 85.3     30.6   33.8       0600     62       0      0      0      1     11     19     25      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 77.4     29.6   33.8
 1100    258       0      0      2      2     13    108    113     20      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 88.0     29.9   33.3       0700    148       1      0      1      1     15     84     43      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 89.2     28.4   31.8
 1200    276       0      0      0      2     13     97    126     35      2      1      0      0      0      0      0 26.6 83.3     30.8   34.4       0800    271       1      1      4      2     54    137     65      5      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 84.9     27.6   31.3
 1300    258       0      0      0      4     13    102    107     30      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 84.1     30.4   33.8       0900    196       0      0      0      5     24    114     47      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 87.8     28.1   31.1
 1400    317       0      0      1      6     18    140    121     30      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 84.2     29.8   33.6       1000    201       0      1      0      1     18    118     57      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 88.6     28.5   31.5
 1500    330       0      0      1      4     25    151    126     21      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 85.2     29.7   33.3       1100    251       0      0      2      1     30    142     68      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 88.8     28.5   32.2
 1600    329       0      0      3      4     11    119    163     28      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 26.2 87.2     30.6   34.0       1200    248       0      0      1      5     34    137     65      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 87.9     28.1   31.3
 1700    324       0      0      1      5     10    128    142     36      1      1      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 86.7     30.5   34.4       1300    251       0      1      3      2     29    125     82      8      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 83.3     28.6   32.4
 1800    235       0      0      1      4     11     70    123     21      5      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 83.4     30.7   33.8       1400    327       0      2      4      1     43    188     82      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 87.5     27.9   31.3
 1900    183       0      0      0      9     13     52     89     16      4      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.2 78.7     30.2   34.0       1500    327       0      0      1      4     59    183     72      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 86.9     27.7   30.9
 2000     95       0      0      0      4      9     41     34      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 80.0     29.3   33.1       1600    413       0      0      0      3     38    236    120     16      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 89.6     28.7   31.8
 2100     77       0      0      0      0      3     37     32      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 90.9     30.1   33.1       1700    468       0      0      3      5     62    259    125     13      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 85.9     28.3   31.8
 2200     42       0      0      0      1      4     12     21      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 78.6     30.6   34.7       1800    404       0      0      4      5     45    214    124      8      4      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 86.6     28.6   31.8
 2300     19       0      0      0      0      2      6      9      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 84.2     30.3   33.1       1900    272       0      0      3      2     20    131    104     11      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 87.9     29.3   32.7
07-19   3574      59    136     54     63    187   1323   1440    289     20      3      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 78.3     28.6   33.6       2000    162       0      0      0      1      9     79     60     13      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 86.4     29.8   33.1
06-22   4014      59    136     54     77    216   1482   1640    320     27      3      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 78.6     28.7   33.6       2100    101       0      0      0      0      2     46     46      6      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 93.1     30.5   33.1
06-00   4075      59    136     54     78    222   1500   1670    325     28      3      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 78.6     28.7   33.6       2200     42       0      0      1      0      5     17     15      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 81.0     29.4   32.4
00-00   4121      59    136     55     79    224   1509   1692    334     30      3      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 78.5     28.8   33.6       2300     13       0      0      0      1      1      6      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 76.9     28.4   33.3
                                                                                                                                                      07-19   3505       2      5     23     35    451   1937    950     91     11      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 86.2     28.3   31.8
Peak step 9:00 (351) AM Peak step 9:00 (351) PM Peak step 15:00 (330)                                                                                 06-22   4102       2      5     26     39    493   2212   1185    127     12      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 86.0     28.5   32.0
                                                                                                                                                      06-00   4157       2      5     27     40    499   2235   1204    131     13      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 85.9     28.5   32.0
* Grand Total                                                                                                                                         00-00   4183       2      5     27     40    505   2239   1214    136     14      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 85.8     28.5   32.0
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85      Peak step 17:00 (468) AM Peak step 8:00 (271) PM Peak step 17:00 (468)
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
   --   12631    119    292    150    226    738   4822   5167   1025     87      5      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 79.6     29.1   33.6

In profile:       Vehicles = 12631 / 34695 (36.41%)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-2726 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-2728 Page 1

* Wednesday, May 05, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                   0
                   5
                          5
                         10
                                10
                                15
                                       15
                                       20
                                              20
                                              25
                                                     25
                                                     30
                                                            30
                                                            35
                                                                   35
                                                                   40
                                                                          40
                                                                          45
                                                                                 45
                                                                                 50
                                                                                        50
                                                                                        55
                                                                                               55
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                             65
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                          10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Report
 0000      8       0      0      0      0      0      5      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 100.0    29.2      -
 0100      6       0      0      0      0      2      2      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 83.3     29.1      -
 0200      2       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 50.0     36.6      -
 0300      4       0      0      0      0      2      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.3 75.0     26.7      -      Datasets:
 0400      4       0      0      0      0      0      1      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.7 100.0    32.8      -      Site:                    [6E] EB PORTLAND AVE E/O MIRAMONTE AVE
 0500     19       0      0      1      0      2      4      6      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 29.5 63.2     31.1   37.6
 0600     60       0      0      0      1      4     29     24      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 88.3     29.4   32.4      Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0700    181       0      0      0      1     22    101     51      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 89.5     28.6   31.8
 0800    249       3      2      7      1     45    135     50      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 84.7     27.1   31.1      Profile:
 0900    210       1      1      2      0     17    123     61      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 89.5     28.4   32.0
 1000    201       0      0      0      3     19    122     49      6      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 92.0     28.5   32.0      Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1100    249       0      0      1      3     27    135     75      6      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 88.4     28.6   32.0      Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1200    268       1      0      1      3     26    132     94      8      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 86.2     28.9   32.7
 1300    274       0      2      2      3     31    153     75      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 89.8     28.2   32.0      Direction:               East (bound)
 1400    304       0      1      2      2     44    172     72     10      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 85.2     28.1   31.5      Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1500    336       3      3      3     11     53    190     63     10      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 84.5     27.2   30.9
 1600    415       0      1      0      4     41    237    115     17      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 89.9     28.6   31.5
                                                                                                                                                      Name:                    TDS Standard
 1700    447       0      0      1      6     56    239    127     15      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 83.0     28.6   32.2      Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 1800    449       0      0      3      1     52    263    114     16      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 89.1     28.4   31.8      Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
 1900    242       0      1      0      0     13    109     93     22      4      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 83.9     30.2   34.0
 2000    151       0      0      0      1      5     74     61      9      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 89.4     30.0   33.3
 2100    160       0      0      0      0      9     69     66     14      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 84.4     30.3   33.6      Column Legend:
 2200     62       0      0      0      2      7     26     20      5      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 75.8     29.5   34.4      0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
 2300     14       0      0      0      0      0      4      7      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.2 92.9     32.5   35.1
07-19   3583       8     10     22     38    433   2002    946    113     11      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 86.5     28.3   31.8      1 [Total]                Number in time step
06-22   4196       8     11     22     40    464   2283   1190    160     18      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 85.8     28.5   32.0      2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
06-00   4272       8     11     22     42    471   2313   1217    167     21      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 85.6     28.6   32.2
00-00   4315       8     11     23     42    477   2326   1231    174     23      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 85.4     28.6   32.2
                                                                                                                                                      3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                                                                                                                                                      4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
Peak step 18:00 (449) AM Peak step 8:00 (249) PM Peak step 18:00 (449)                                                                                5 [Mean]                 Average speed
* Thursday, May 06, 2010
                                                                                                                                                      6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0000      9       0      0      0      0      0      4      3      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 77.8     31.1      -      * Tuesday, May 04, 2010
 0100      3       0      0      0      0      0      1      1      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 66.7     34.5      -       Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
 0200      3       0      0      0      0      0      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.8 100.0    27.4      -                         0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
 0300      3       0      0      0      0      0      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 100.0    28.1      -                         5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0400      6       0      0      0      0      0      3      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 83.3     30.9      -       0000      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0500     13       0      0      0      0      2      3      3      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.6 61.5     32.0   36.5       0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0600     64       0      0      0      0      8     23     28      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 79.7     29.8   33.8       0200      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.9 100.0    31.8      -
 0700    130       0      0      0      2     21     73     31      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 88.5     28.1   31.8       0300      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.2 100.0    27.2      -
 0800    210       9      2      7      5     55    112     18      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.3 82.9     24.9   29.3       0400      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0900    205       0      1      0      2     27    112     55      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 86.8     28.4   32.2       0500      7       0      0      0      0      0      4      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 85.7     30.4      -
 1000    231       0      0      0      2     24    131     61     13      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 89.2     28.5   31.8       0600     47       0      0      0      1      7     22      8      8      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 74.5     29.5   36.2
 1100    245       0      0      3      2     24    125     74     15      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 83.7     28.9   32.4       0700    177       0      0      1      4     12    108     48      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 91.5     28.6   31.3
 1200    254       0      1      0      1     29    135     82      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 89.8     28.6   32.2       0800    129       0      0      0      6     16     76     26      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 86.8     28.2   31.3
 1300    243       0      0      2      2     31    137     60      9      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 87.7     28.4   31.3       0900     94       0      0      2      1     12     39     39      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 83.0     28.3   31.5
 1400    336       0      0      3      8     41    189     85      8      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 84.8     28.0   31.5       1000     78       0      0      2      1      6     43     24      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 89.7     28.5   31.8
 1500    336       0      0      0      2     46    196     79     12      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 88.7     28.3   31.1       1100    114       0      0      0      0     11     56     43      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 88.6     29.3   32.4
 1600    373       0      0      1      4     41    188    125     14      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 88.2     28.8   32.0       1200    122       0      0      0      3     11     56     46      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 86.1     29.1   32.4
 1700    444       0      0      2      2     48    259    115     16      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 87.6     28.6   31.8       1300    109       0      0      2      6      5     58     32      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 83.5     28.3   32.0
 1800    425       0      0      2      7     53    204    143     16      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 85.4     28.7   32.0       1400    165       0      0      2      8      9     89     53      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 86.1     28.5   32.0
 1900    221       0      1      0      3     21     96     79     20      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 80.5     29.7   33.6       1500    163       0      0      1      3     14     88     55      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 94.5     28.7   31.5
 2000    165       0      0      0      1     19     66     69      9      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 86.1     29.6   32.9       1600    155       0      0      0      2      8     59     77      7      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 88.4     30.1   32.9
 2100    127       0      0      0      0      9     52     56     10      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 87.4     30.2   33.8       1700    175       0      0      1      5     16     73     76      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 86.9     29.0   32.2
 2200     73       0      0      1      0      8     31     25      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 82.2     29.5   33.6       1800    123       0      0      1      4     11     47     56      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 86.2     29.2   32.7
 2300     27       0      0      0      0      0     13     11      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.8 92.6     31.2   34.7       1900    102       0      0      1      2     12     56     28      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 87.3     28.3   31.5
07-19   3432       9      4     20     39    440   1861    928    120     11      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 86.1     28.3   31.8       2000     82       0      0      1      4     19     38     19      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 81.7     27.2   31.5
06-22   4009       9      5     20     43    497   2098   1160    163     14      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 85.0     28.5   32.0       2100     45       0      0      0      0      4     23     12      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 82.2     29.8   33.8
06-00   4109       9      5     21     43    505   2142   1196    173     15      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 84.9     28.5   32.2       2200     12       0      0      0      0      0      8      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 100.0    29.9   32.4
00-00   4146       9      5     21     43    507   2159   1205    180     17      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 84.7     28.6   32.2       2300      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.9 100.0    27.9      -
                                                                                                                                                      07-19   1604       0      0     12     43    131    792    575     45      6      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 86.7     28.8   32.2
Peak step 17:00 (444) AM Peak step 11:00 (245) PM Peak step 17:00 (444)                                                                               06-22   1880       0      0     14     50    173    931    642     63      6      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 85.5     28.8   32.2
                                                                                                                                                      06-00   1893       0      0     14     50    173    940    645     64      6      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 85.5     28.8   32.2
* Grand Total                                                                                                                                         00-00   1902       0      0     14     50    173    945    648     65      6      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 85.5     28.8   32.2
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85      Peak step 7:00 (177) AM Peak step 7:00 (177) PM Peak step 17:00 (175)
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
   --   12644     19     21     71    125   1489   6724   3650    490     54      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 85.3     28.6   32.2

In profile:       Vehicles = 12644 / 34695 (36.44%)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-2728 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-2727 Page 1

* Wednesday, May 05, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                   0
                   5
                          5
                         10
                                10
                                15
                                       15
                                       20
                                              20
                                              25
                                                     25
                                                     30
                                                            30
                                                            35
                                                                   35
                                                                   40
                                                                          40
                                                                          45
                                                                                 45
                                                                                 50
                                                                                        50
                                                                                        55
                                                                                               55
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                             65
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                          10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Report
 0000      4       0      0      0      0      0      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.3 100.0    29.1      -
 0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0300      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -      Datasets:
 0400      3       0      0      0      0      0      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 100.0    29.5      -      Site:                    [6W] WB PORTLAND AVE E/O MIRAMONTE AVE
 0500      9       0      0      0      1      0      4      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.1 88.9     29.5      -
 0600     36       0      0      1      0      4     20     10      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 86.1     28.0   31.1      Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0700     87       0      0      0      3     14     39     29      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 82.8     28.2   32.0
 0800    180       1      0      1      8     17     98     53      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 87.2     28.1   31.3      Profile:
 0900     76       0      1      1      2      1     40     28      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 90.8     28.9   32.9
 1000     87       0      0      2      3      7     36     35      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 86.2     29.0   32.7      Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1100     98       0      0      0      4      8     46     32      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 81.6     29.1   32.9      Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1200    128       1      0      2      1      7     61     41     13      0      2      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 79.7     29.6   34.4
 1300     89       0      0      1      3      7     39     31      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 80.9     29.2   33.1      Direction:               West (bound)
 1400    164       0      0      0      8     11     82     57      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 86.6     28.8   32.0      Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1500    177       0      0      2      5     11     83     67      9      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 87.0     29.1   32.2
 1600    168       0      0      2      6     10     79     60     10      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 82.7     29.1   32.9
                                                                                                                                                      Name:                    TDS Standard
 1700    153       0      0      0      4      8     65     65     11      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 85.0     29.5   32.7      Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 1800    192       0      0      0      4     11     91     75     10      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 88.0     29.6   32.9      Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
 1900    107       0      0      0      7     16     44     38      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 81.3     28.1   31.5
 2000     70       0      0      0      1      8     42     16      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 90.0     28.2   31.5
 2100     61       0      0      0      3     13     33     11      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.3 86.9     26.9   30.4      Column Legend:
 2200     21       0      0      0      0      2     14      3      1      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 85.7     29.1   31.5      0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
 2300      3       0      0      0      0      0      0      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.4 100.0    35.2      -
07-19   1599       2      1     11     51    112    759    573     83      5      2      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 84.2     29.1   32.7      1 [Total]                Number in time step
06-22   1873       2      1     12     62    153    898    648     90      5      2      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 83.9     28.9   32.4      2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
06-00   1897       2      1     12     62    155    912    653     92      5      3      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 83.8     28.9   32.4
00-00   1913       2      1     12     63    155    922    657     93      5      3      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 83.8     28.9   32.4
                                                                                                                                                      3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                                                                                                                                                      4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
Peak step 18:00 (192) AM Peak step 8:00 (180) PM Peak step 18:00 (192)                                                                                5 [Mean]                 Average speed
* Thursday, May 06, 2010
                                                                                                                                                      6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0000      7       0      0      0      0      2      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.9 85.7     26.8      -      * Tuesday, May 04, 2010
 0100      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.0 100.0    27.0      -       Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
 0200      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.9 100.0    25.8      -                         0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
 0300      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -                         5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0400      2       0      0      0      1      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   8.7 50.0    23.6      -       0000      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0500     13       0      0      0      0      0      3     10      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 100.0    30.4   30.6       0100      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 100.0    31.7      -
 0600     32       0      0      1      2      0     11     15      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 81.3     29.6   33.3       0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0700    152       0      0      1      3     20     95     30      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 84.9     27.6   30.4       0300      3       0      0      0      0      0      1      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 28.2 100.0    32.4      -
 0800    130       0      2      1      5     10     58     49      3      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 86.2     28.5   32.0       0400      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.5 100.0    29.5      -
 0900     93       0      0      0      4      6     50     29      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 84.9     29.0   32.7       0500      8       0      0      2      0      2      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 11.6 50.0     23.4      -
 1000     75       0      0      1      3      2     43     23      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 89.3     28.8   32.0       0600     59       0      1      1      0      4     34     17      1      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 88.1     28.5   31.5
 1100    106       0      0      1      1      9     52     39      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 86.8     29.0   32.7       0700    170       0      0      1      0     14     97     51      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 90.0     29.0   32.2
 1200     91       0      0      1      2      7     44     27     10      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 79.1     29.3   33.8       0800    207       0      3      1      5     21    111     59      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 86.0     28.3   32.0
 1300    117       0      0      0      2     11     61     39      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 88.0     28.9   32.4       0900    103       0      1      2      2     15     55     24      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 83.5     27.4   30.6
 1400    119       0      0      2      8     12     52     34      9      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 73.9     28.3   32.4       1000     85       0      0      1      0     11     38     30      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 84.7     28.8   31.8
 1500    164       0      0      1      3     27     80     49      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 86.6     28.1   31.5       1100     87       0      1      1      2      6     52     23      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 92.0     28.1   30.9
 1600    155       0      0      1      8      8     68     61      9      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 84.5     28.9   32.2       1200    101       0      0      2      3      7     41     37      9      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 79.2     29.4   34.0
 1700    145       0      0      0      4      5     73     51     11      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 89.0     29.6   33.1       1300     79       0      2      0      5      8     39     19      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 77.2     27.8   32.4
 1800    124       0      0      3      0      8     47     57      8      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 85.5     29.8   32.7       1400    158       0      4      0      5     21     74     45      9      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 77.2     28.0   32.7
 1900    108       0      0      1      4      6     51     40      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 87.0     29.3   32.9       1500    161       0      2      0      5     19     86     44      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 85.1     28.1   31.1
 2000     67       0      0      0      1     12     32     18      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      2 22.4 79.1     30.3   32.2       1600    139       0      1      0      0      9     84     39      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 88.5     29.0   31.8
 2100     55       0      0      1      1      6     40      5      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 89.1     27.1   29.8       1700    113       0      0      2      1      7     56     41      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 85.8     29.0   32.2
 2200     20       0      0      0      1      5      7      3      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.1 60.0     29.1   36.9       1800    124       0      0      1      6     16     64     37      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 85.5     27.7   31.8
 2300      7       0      0      0      0      2      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 100.0    27.5      -       1900     77       0      0      1      6     10     39     18      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 76.6     27.5   31.5
07-19   1471       0      2     12     43    125    723    488     72      6      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 83.4     28.8   32.2       2000     44       0      0      1      0      4     16     20      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 84.1     29.5   32.9
06-22   1733       0      2     15     51    149    857    566     85      6      0      0      0      0      0      2 23.9 83.3     28.8   32.4       2100     18       0      0      1      0      3      6      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 83.3     27.9   32.2
06-00   1760       0      2     15     52    156    869    569     88      7      0      0      0      0      0      2 23.9 83.0     28.8   32.4       2200     12       0      0      0      1      2      6      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.2 75.0     27.5   33.1
00-00   1784       0      2     15     53    158    879    580     88      7      0      0      0      0      0      2 23.9 83.1     28.8   32.2       2300      2       0      0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 100.0    29.9      -
                                                                                                                                                      07-19   1527       0     14     11     34    154    797    449     64      4      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 83.6     28.4   32.0
Peak step 15:00 (164) AM Peak step 7:00 (152) PM Peak step 15:00 (164)                                                                                06-22   1725       0     15     15     40    175    892    511     72      4      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 83.1     28.4   32.0
                                                                                                                                                      06-00   1739       0     15     15     41    177    899    514     73      4      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 83.0     28.4   32.0
* Grand Total                                                                                                                                         00-00   1752       0     15     17     41    179    903    518     74      4      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 82.9     28.4   32.0
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85      Peak step 8:00 (207) AM Peak step 8:00 (207) PM Peak step 15:00 (161)
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
   --    5599      2      3     41    166    486   2746   1885    246     18      4      0      0      0      0      2 23.9 84.0     28.8   32.2

In profile:       Vehicles = 5599 / 15106 (37.06%)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-2727 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-2730 Page 1

* Wednesday, May 05, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                   0
                   5
                          5
                         10
                                10
                                15
                                       15
                                       20
                                              20
                                              25
                                                     25
                                                     30
                                                            30
                                                            35
                                                                   35
                                                                   40
                                                                          40
                                                                          45
                                                                                 45
                                                                                 50
                                                                                        50
                                                                                        55
                                                                                               55
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                             65
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                          10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Report
 0000      1       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 10.5 100.0    20.5      -
 0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0300      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.4 100.0    30.4      -      Datasets:
 0400      2       0      0      0      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.1 100.0    26.6      -      Site:                    [7E] EB PORTLAND AVE W/O GRANT RD
 0500     10       0      0      0      0      0      5      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 100.0    29.7      -
 0600     43       0      0      0      0      8     23     11      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 95.3     28.5   31.1      Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0700    142       0      0      0      1     12     64     53     10      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 83.8     30.0   33.3
 0800    192       0      0      0      5     20    105     58      3      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 90.1     28.5   31.5      Profile:
 0900     96       0      0      0      3     14     44     29      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 83.3     28.6   32.4
 1000     87       0      0      1      2     12     40     26      4      1      0      1      0      0      0      0 21.9 80.5     28.7   32.2      Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1100     87       0      0      2      2      9     39     31      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 81.6     28.7   31.8      Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1200    110       0      2      0      0      6     47     44     10      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 84.5     29.8   33.8
 1300     91       0      2      2      0      7     42     32      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 80.2     28.7   33.1      Direction:               East (bound)
 1400    145       0      1      3      2     12     83     40      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 86.2     28.3   31.8      Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1500    166       0      2      2      2     23     77     53      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 83.7     28.3   31.5
 1600    151       0      3      0      2     13     85     36     12      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 82.1     28.4   32.7
                                                                                                                                                      Name:                    TDS Standard
 1700    130       0      2      1      6     12     66     37      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 79.2     28.2   32.4      Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 1800    110       0      0      3      2      9     55     31      9      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 80.9     28.7   32.9      Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
 1900     96       0      0      2      7     21     36     24      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 72.9     27.3   32.0
 2000     76       0      0      4      2     17     37     11      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 76.3     27.0   31.5
 2100     55       0      0      2      2      4     31     15      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 87.3     27.5   31.5      Column Legend:
 2200     14       0      0      0      0      2      9      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.1 92.9     27.1   30.0      0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
 2300      5       0      0      0      1      1      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 60.0     26.1      -
07-19   1507       0     12     14     27    149    747    470     80      5      2      1      0      0      0      0 24.2 81.9     28.7   32.4      1 [Total]                Number in time step
06-22   1777       0     12     22     38    199    874    531     92      6      2      1      0      0      0      0 23.7 80.9     28.5   32.4      2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
06-00   1796       0     12     22     39    202    884    536     92      6      2      1      0      0      0      0 23.7 80.8     28.5   32.4
00-00   1810       0     12     22     39    203    891    542     92      6      2      1      0      0      0      0 23.7 80.9     28.5   32.4
                                                                                                                                                      3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                                                                                                                                                      4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
Peak step 8:00 (192) AM Peak step 8:00 (192) PM Peak step 15:00 (166)                                                                                 5 [Mean]                 Average speed
* Thursday, May 06, 2010
                                                                                                                                                      6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0000      6       0      0      0      0      0      3      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 100.0    29.5      -      * Tuesday, May 04, 2010
 0100      2       0      0      0      0      1      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 100.0    27.3      -       Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
 0200      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 100.0    32.3      -                         0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
 0300      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.2 100.0    29.2      -                         5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0400      2       0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.0 100.0    25.9      -       0000      3       0      0      0      0      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.1 100.0    28.2      -
 0500     11       0      0      0      0      0      3      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 100.0    30.8   32.2       0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0600     55       0      0      2      0      7     26     16      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 83.6     28.7   33.1       0200      2       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.8 100.0    34.7      -
 0700    173       0      0      0      1     21     92     51      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 89.6     28.9   31.8       0300      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 100.0    31.6      -
 0800    231       0      0      2      8     27    117     68      8      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 82.3     28.3   31.8       0400      3       0      0      0      0      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.9 100.0    25.2      -
 0900     91       0      0      0      0      7     50     29      3      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 87.9     29.4   32.9       0500     18       0      0      0      2      5      5      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 66.7     26.4   31.3
 1000     88       0      1      3      1     17     41     25      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 84.1     26.9   31.3       0600     69       0      0      0      3     11     40     15      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 87.0     27.2   30.6
 1100    106       0      1      1      3     12     45     36      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 82.1     28.7   32.9       0700    171       0      0      2      9     16     82     49     11      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 78.9     28.5   32.7
 1200     94       0      0      0      0     12     49     27      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 88.3     29.0   32.7       0800    158       0      0      0      0     12     99     42      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 93.0     28.4   31.3
 1300    116       0      2      1      4     13     47     45      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 80.2     28.6   33.1       0900    104       0      1      1      1     13     59     27      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 85.6     28.1   32.0
 1400    129       0      3      1      2     11     72     34      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 82.2     28.5   32.4       1000     64       0      1      0      0     13     30     18      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 81.3     28.1   32.2
 1500    142       0      2      2      7     15     71     35      9      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 81.7     27.9   32.0       1100    101       0      0      2      2     15     56     22      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 84.2     27.7   30.9
 1600    114       0      0      1      3      6     60     40      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 87.7     28.8   32.2       1200     85       0      0      0      1     15     38     26      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 81.2     28.8   32.2
 1700    117       0      0      0      3      9     62     36      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 85.5     29.0   32.7       1300     76       0      0      1      1      8     30     30      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 81.6     29.1   32.4
 1800    113       0      2      3      7     10     32     51      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 74.3     28.6   33.1       1400    163       0      0      1      2     29     85     38      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 84.7     28.3   31.1
 1900     78       0      0      1      4     10     40     19      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 78.2     28.1   31.1       1500    102       0      0      0      2     12     65     19      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 87.3     28.0   31.1
 2000     37       0      0      1      2      4     20      6      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      2 22.6 78.4     31.2   32.2       1600    113       0      0      0      2     13     55     37      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 84.1     28.7   32.0
 2100     35       0      0      1      0      3     20      7      3      0      0      0      0      1      0      0 23.9 80.0     29.3   33.3       1700    123       0      0      2      0     15     67     36      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 91.1     28.4   31.5
 2200     19       0      0      0      0      0      8      9      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 89.5     31.1   34.2       1800     84       0      0      1      2      8     41     28      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 86.9     28.7   31.8
 2300      6       0      0      0      1      0      1      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 83.3     29.2      -       1900     76       0      0      1      2     12     44     17      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 90.8     27.3   30.6
07-19   1514       0     11     14     39    160    738    477     65     10      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 82.4     28.5   32.4       2000     58       0      0      0      1     11     33     11      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 86.2     27.6   31.1
06-22   1719       0     11     19     45    184    844    525     77     11      0      0      0      1      0      2 23.9 82.0     28.6   32.4       2100     26       0      0      0      0      0     10     11      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.2 96.2     31.4   34.9
06-00   1744       0     11     19     46    184    853    538     79     11      0      0      0      1      0      2 23.9 81.9     28.6   32.7       2200     11       0      0      0      0      1      5      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 90.9     29.6   31.3
00-00   1767       0     11     19     46    186    861    551     79     11      0      0      0      1      0      2 23.9 81.9     28.6   32.7       2300      3       0      0      0      0      2      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.5 100.0    26.5      -
                                                                                                                                                      07-19   1344       0      2     10     22    169    707    372     55      7      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 84.3     28.4   31.8
Peak step 8:00 (231) AM Peak step 8:00 (231) PM Peak step 15:00 (142)                                                                                 06-22   1573       0      2     11     28    203    834    426     62      7      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 84.2     28.3   31.8
                                                                                                                                                      06-00   1587       0      2     11     28    206    839    432     62      7      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 84.2     28.3   31.8
* Grand Total                                                                                                                                         00-00   1614       0      2     11     30    213    848    440     63      7      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 83.9     28.3   31.8
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85      Peak step 7:00 (171) AM Peak step 7:00 (171) PM Peak step 14:00 (163)
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
   --    5329      0     38     58    126    568   2655   1611    245     21      3      1      0      1      0      2 23.7 81.8     28.5   32.2

In profile:       Vehicles = 5329 / 15106 (35.28%)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-2730 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-2729 Page 1

* Wednesday, May 05, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                   0
                   5
                          5
                         10
                                10
                                15
                                       15
                                       20
                                              20
                                              25
                                                     25
                                                     30
                                                            30
                                                            35
                                                                   35
                                                                   40
                                                                          40
                                                                          45
                                                                                 45
                                                                                 50
                                                                                        50
                                                                                        55
                                                                                               55
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                             65
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                          10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Report
 0000      5       0      0      0      0      0      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 100.0    27.8      -
 0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0300      2       0      0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 100.0    30.6      -      Datasets:
 0400      4       0      0      0      0      0      2      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 75.0     31.9      -      Site:                    [7W] WB PORTLAND AVE W/O GRANT RD
 0500     23       0      0      0      0      1     12      7      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 91.3     30.2   34.4
 0600     52       0      0      0      0      9     33      9      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 90.4     27.9   30.9      Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0700     87       0      1      0      2     12     43     27      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 81.6     28.1   31.5
 0800    220       0      0      2      3     18    128     66      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 93.6     28.4   31.5      Profile:
 0900     78       0      0      3      0      9     43     22      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 88.5     27.9   31.5
 1000     94       0      0      2      5     17     49     17      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 79.8     27.2   31.1      Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1100     96       0      0      1      1     15     54     22      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 86.5     27.8   31.1      Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1200    100       0      0      1      2     19     45     29      3      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 81.0     28.1   32.0
 1300     75       0      0      1      4      7     34     26      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 84.0     28.5   32.4      Direction:               West (bound)
 1400    162       1      0      1      5     24     89     40      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 88.3     27.6   31.1      Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1500    120       0      0      0      1     18     62     34      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      2 23.5 88.3     29.1   31.5
 1600    144       0      0      2      3     20     54     60      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 86.1     28.9   32.0
                                                                                                                                                      Name:                    TDS Standard
 1700    106       0      2      0      0     13     46     37      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 82.1     29.1   32.4      Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 1800    155       0      0      0      2     14    105     31      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 91.6     27.9   30.6      Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
 1900     79       0      0      0      1     10     50     14      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 89.9     28.2   30.6
 2000     62       0      0      0      1     13     32     13      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 85.5     28.0   31.3
 2100     51       0      0      0      3      3     24     19      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 86.3     29.1   34.0      Column Legend:
 2200     20       0      0      0      0      2     10      6      1      0      0      1      0      0      0      0 21.9 80.0     30.7   34.0      0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
 2300      5       0      0      0      0      0      0      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 28.6 100.0    32.8      -
07-19   1437       1      3     13     28    186    752    411     36      4      1      0      0      0      0      2 23.9 85.7     28.2   31.8      1 [Total]                Number in time step
06-22   1681       1      3     13     33    221    891    466     46      4      1      0      0      0      0      2 23.3 85.1     28.2   31.8      2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
06-00   1706       1      3     13     33    223    901    476     48      4      1      1      0      0      0      2 22.6 85.0     28.3   31.8
00-00   1740       1      3     13     33    224    921    485     52      4      1      1      0      0      0      2 22.6 84.8     28.3   31.8
                                                                                                                                                      3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                                                                                                                                                      4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
Peak step 8:00 (220) AM Peak step 8:00 (220) PM Peak step 14:00 (162)                                                                                 5 [Mean]                 Average speed
* Thursday, May 06, 2010
                                                                                                                                                      6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0000      6       0      0      0      0      2      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.0 100.0    28.0      -      * Tuesday, May 04, 2010
 0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -       Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
 0200      2       0      0      0      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.5 100.0    29.2      -                         0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
 0300      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 100.0    33.4      -                         5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0400      4       0      0      0      0      0      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 100.0    29.4      -       0000      2       0      0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 100.0    28.5      -
 0500     21       0      0      0      1      1     10      9      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 90.5     29.1   32.0       0100      2       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.5 100.0    35.8      -
 0600     57       0      0      0      3      8     24     21      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 86.0     28.3   31.8       0200      2       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 28.2 100.0    37.2      -
 0700    162       0      1      0      6     10     94     43      5      1      0      2      0      0      0      0 23.9 86.4     28.9   31.8       0300      3       0      0      0      0      0      1      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.3 66.7     31.2      -
 0800    147       0      0      1      1     16     71     56      1      0      0      1      0      0      0      0 23.3 89.8     28.9   31.5       0400      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.3 100.0    31.2      -
 0900     86       0      0      0      1      7     53     21      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 87.2     28.6   31.8       0500      4       0      0      0      1      0      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 75.0     26.5      -
 1000     84       0      1      0      2     14     45     21      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 82.1     27.5   31.1       0600     46       0      0      1      3      4     33      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 89.1     26.8   29.3
 1100    110       0      0      0      5     20     53     30      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 80.9     27.7   31.3       0700    129       0      0      0      1      8     63     52      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 89.9     29.3   32.2
 1200     92       0      0      2      2     16     43     24      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 77.2     28.0   32.7       0800    166       0      0      1      2     24     66     62     10      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 77.1     29.1   33.3
 1300    115       0      0      0      3     12     55     41      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 87.0     28.7   32.2       0900     75       0      1      0      2      6     43     21      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 85.3     28.4   31.8
 1400    102       0      0      1      2     10     48     37      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 88.2     28.8   32.0       1000     74       0      1      2      1      4     31     30      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 83.8     28.8   32.4
 1500    123       0      0      0      1     18     71     29      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 89.4     28.2   30.9       1100     88       0      0      0      1     10     51     25      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 92.0     28.5   31.8
 1600    109       0      0      1      7      9     42     45      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 84.4     28.9   32.7       1200     97       0      0      0      0     11     39     39      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 88.7     29.7   33.3
 1700     95       0      0      1      2     12     48     27      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 84.2     28.2   31.5       1300     89       0      0      0      0      7     52     27      2      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 93.3     29.0   31.8
 1800     86       0      0      0      3     13     45     21      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 87.2     27.9   31.1       1400    172       0      0      2      3     17    104     43      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 89.5     28.1   31.5
 1900     86       0      0      0      0     13     45     26      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 88.4     28.4   31.8       1500    140       0      1      0      3     18     69     42      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 82.1     28.5   32.2
 2000     48       0      0      0      1      5     22     18      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 89.6     28.9   32.0       1600    132       0      0      0      2      6     74     42      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 89.4     29.7   32.7
 2100     34       0      0      1      0      1     14     16      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 91.2     29.9   32.9       1700    110       0      1      2      2      8     48     40      7      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.2 82.7     29.3   33.6
 2200     16       0      0      0      0      0      5      8      0      2      0      0      1      0      0      0 23.5 81.3     33.3   40.0       1800    117       0      0      2      3     14     58     35      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 80.3     28.3   31.8
 2300      5       0      0      0      0      1      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 80.0     29.3      -       1900     89       0      1      3      5      5     49     22      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 83.1     27.7   31.3
07-19   1311       0      2      6     35    157    668    395     37      7      1      3      0      0      0      0 23.7 84.6     28.4   32.0       2000     39       0      0      0      1      2     23      9      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 84.6     29.5   32.9
06-22   1536       0      2      7     39    184    773    476     44      7      1      3      0      0      0      0 23.7 85.0     28.5   32.0       2100     20       0      0      0      0      1     14      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 95.0     28.9   30.6
06-00   1557       0      2      7     39    185    780    486     44      9      1      3      1      0      0      0 23.7 84.9     28.5   32.0       2200     17       0      0      0      0      0      9      7      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 94.1     30.8   33.8
00-00   1591       0      2      7     40    188    798    498     44      9      1      3      1      0      0      0 23.7 85.0     28.5   32.0       2300      7       0      0      0      0      0      3      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 100.0    30.1      -
                                                                                                                                                      07-19   1389       0      4      9     20    133    698    458     57      9      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 84.7     28.9   32.4
Peak step 7:00 (162) AM Peak step 7:00 (162) PM Peak step 15:00 (123)                                                                                 06-22   1583       0      5     13     29    145    817    498     65     10      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 84.8     28.8   32.2
                                                                                                                                                      06-00   1607       0      5     13     29    145    829    509     65     11      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 85.0     28.8   32.2
* Grand Total                                                                                                                                         00-00   1621       0      5     13     30    145    832    515     69     11      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 84.8     28.8   32.2
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85      Peak step 14:00 (172) AM Peak step 8:00 (166) PM Peak step 14:00 (172)
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
   --    4945      1      7     31    103    625   2567   1423    159     20      2      4      1      0      0      2 23.7 84.5     28.4   31.8

In profile:       Vehicles = 4945 / 13671 (36.17%)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-2729 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-2731 Page 1

* Wednesday, May 05, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                   0
                   5
                          5
                         10
                                10
                                15
                                       15
                                       20
                                              20
                                              25
                                                     25
                                                     30
                                                            30
                                                            35
                                                                   35
                                                                   40
                                                                          40
                                                                          45
                                                                                 45
                                                                                 50
                                                                                        50
                                                                                        55
                                                                                               55
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                             65
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                          10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Report
 0000      3       0      0      0      0      0      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 100.0    30.9      -
 0100      2       0      0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.4 100.0    29.0      -
 0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0300      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 100.0    29.7      -      Datasets:
 0400      2       0      0      0      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 100.0    28.7      -      Site:                    [8N] NB EAST WOOD DR
 0500     11       0      0      0      0      0      4      4      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 90.9     31.7   35.8
 0600     34       0      0      0      0      9     21      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.5 88.2     26.7   29.3      Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0700    110       0      1      0      0      8     48     43      9      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 85.5     30.0   33.3
 0800    158       0      1      0      2      6     76     68      3      1      1      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 91.1     29.6   32.2      Profile:
 0900     79       0      0      1      1     10     41     25      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 87.3     28.4   31.8
 1000     80       0      0      1      2     12     39     25      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 85.0     28.1   32.0      Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1100     82       0      0      2      0      5     53     18      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 89.0     28.2   31.5      Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1200    113       0      1      1      1     11     43     50      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 83.2     29.1   32.9
 1300     82       0      1      0      0      9     34     35      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 85.4     29.2   32.2      Direction:               North (bound)
 1400    159       0      0      5      4     17     86     41      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 83.6     27.9   31.3      Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1500    148       0      1      1      2     16     68     57      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      1 24.2 89.2     29.0   32.2
 1600    139       0      1      2      6      8     60     51      9      1      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 81.3     29.0   32.4
                                                                                                                                                      Name:                    TDS Standard
 1700    119       0      1      4      0      7     52     45     10      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 84.0     29.4   33.6      Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 1800    116       0      0      2      2      7     62     37      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 85.3     28.7   32.0      Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
 1900     99       0      0      2      1     13     48     27      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 78.8     28.8   32.2
 2000     67       0      0      0      0      7     36     22      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 88.1     29.1   31.8
 2100     74       0      0      1      0      5     49     18      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 94.6     28.1   30.9      Column Legend:
 2200     21       0      0      0      0      5     13      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.0 90.5     27.4   29.5      0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
 2300      9       0      0      0      0      0      6      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 100.0    29.2      -
07-19   1385       0      7     19     20    116    662    495     59      4      2      0      0      0      0      1 24.2 84.7     28.9   32.2      1 [Total]                Number in time step
06-22   1659       0      7     22     21    150    816    566     69      5      2      0      0      0      0      1 24.2 84.4     28.8   32.2      2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
06-00   1689       0      7     22     21    155    835    571     70      5      2      0      0      0      0      1 24.2 84.5     28.8   32.2
00-00   1708       0      7     22     21    155    844    578     73      5      2      0      0      0      0      1 24.2 84.5     28.8   32.2
                                                                                                                                                      3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                                                                                                                                                      4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
Peak step 14:00 (159) AM Peak step 8:00 (158) PM Peak step 14:00 (159)                                                                                5 [Mean]                 Average speed
* Thursday, May 06, 2010
                                                                                                                                                      6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0000      2       0      0      0      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 100.0    27.4      -      * Tuesday, May 04, 2010
 0100      3       0      0      0      0      0      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.3 100.0    29.3      -       Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
 0200      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.5 100.0    29.3      -                         0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
 0300      2       0      0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.0 100.0    30.1      -                         5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0400      5       0      0      0      0      0      2      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 100.0    30.7      -       0000      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0500      6       0      0      0      0      0      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 100.0    28.9      -       0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0600     53       0      0      2      3     14     27      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 84.9     25.6   29.5       0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0700    124       0      2      0      1      5     69     41      5      0      0      1      0      0      0      0 24.4 88.7     29.2   32.2       0300      2       0      0      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 12.5 100.0    22.5      -
 0800    182       0      0      1      0     18     81     74      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 87.9     29.3   32.7       0400      1       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 12.5 100.0    22.5      -
 0900     72       0      0      0      0     10     37     21      2      1      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 90.3     29.2   32.0       0500      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.7 100.0    25.5      -
 1000     87       0      1      2      7     15     46     15      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 80.5     26.2   30.6       0600      6       0      0      1      0      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 14.5 83.3     22.0      -
 1100    108       0      0      0      1     12     64     23      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 84.3     28.8   31.8       0700     13       0      0      3      0      8      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 76.9     21.3   24.4
 1200    104       0      0      1      1      8     46     41      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 85.6     29.4   32.9       0800     25       0      0      3      9      8      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.1 76.0     20.9   25.5
 1300    111       0      0      0      1      7     51     46      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 88.3     29.8   32.9       0900      9       0      0      0      2      3      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.2 88.9     22.9      -
 1400    143       0      1      1      1      8     71     53      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 88.1     29.2   33.3       1000     18       0      0      0      3     11      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.4 88.9     22.8   25.3
 1500    117       0      0      2      2      7     52     49      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 86.3     29.3   32.7       1100     16       0      0      0      3     12      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 14.3 93.8     21.6   24.2
 1600    105       0      0      1      0      4     53     42      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 90.5     29.9   32.7       1200     17       0      0      0      1     11      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.5 100.0    24.3   26.2
 1700    108       0      0      0      3     11     35     52      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 82.4     29.8   33.3       1300     12       0      1      2      4      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.1 75.0     19.1   22.4
 1800    117       0      0      4      5     12     51     38      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 76.9     28.3   33.1       1400     25       0      0      0      5     17      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.2 92.0     22.1   24.4
 1900     78       0      0      0      1     13     36     25      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 84.6     28.9   32.9       1500     26       1      0      1      3     18      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.2 92.3     21.6   24.6
 2000     41       0      0      0      0      5     28      6      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.9 90.2     27.8   31.3       1600     25       0      0      2      2     11      9      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 84.0     23.4   26.6
 2100     38       0      0      1      0      4     21     11      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.9 86.8     28.3   31.5       1700     24       0      0      0      2     12      9      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.3 91.7     24.7   27.1
 2200     20       0      0      0      0      1      8      9      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 85.0     30.7   34.2       1800     20       0      0      1      5      9      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.0 85.0     22.3   26.2
 2300      6       0      0      0      0      0      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.5 100.0    28.6      -       1900      9       0      0      0      2      4      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.4 100.0    22.7      -
07-19   1378       0      4     12     22    117    656    495     61      9      1      1      0      0      0      0 24.4 84.7     29.1   32.7       2000      7       0      0      0      0      1      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.2 100.0    26.0      -
06-22   1588       0      4     15     26    153    768    543     68      9      1      1      0      0      0      0 24.4 83.8     28.9   32.7       2100      7       0      0      0      0      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.8 100.0    22.5      -
06-00   1614       0      4     15     26    154    781    553     70      9      1      1      0      0      0      0 24.4 83.8     28.9   32.7       2200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
00-00   1633       0      4     15     26    154    794    559     70      9      1      1      0      0      0      0 24.4 84.0     28.9   32.7       2300      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.1 100.0    28.0      -
                                                                                                                                                      07-19    230       1      1     12     39    124     49      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.4 81.7     22.4   25.9
Peak step 8:00 (182) AM Peak step 8:00 (182) PM Peak step 14:00 (143)                                                                                 06-22    259       1      1     13     41    140     59      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.4 83.0     22.5   25.9
                                                                                                                                                      06-00    260       1      1     13     41    140     60      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.4 82.7     22.5   25.9
* Grand Total                                                                                                                                         00-00    264       1      1     13     41    143     61      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.4 83.0     22.5   25.9
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85      Peak step 15:00 (26) AM Peak step 8:00 (25) PM Peak step 15:00 (26)
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
   --    4962      0     16     50     77    454   2470   1652    212     25      4      1      0      0      0      1 23.9 84.2     28.9   32.4

In profile:       Vehicles = 4962 / 13671 (36.30%)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-2731 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-2732 Page 1

* Wednesday, May 05, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                   0
                   5
                          5
                         10
                                10
                                15
                                       15
                                       20
                                              20
                                              25
                                                     25
                                                     30
                                                            30
                                                            35
                                                                   35
                                                                   40
                                                                          40
                                                                          45
                                                                                 45
                                                                                 50
                                                                                        50
                                                                                        55
                                                                                               55
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                             65
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                          10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Report
 0000      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0300      4       1      0      0      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   5.6 75.0    12.8      -      Datasets:
 0400      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -      Site:                    [8S] SB EAST WOOD DR
 0500      2       0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 14.5 100.0    21.9      -
 0600      5       0      0      1      1      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 14.1 100.0    20.4      -      Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0700      6       0      0      1      3      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 14.8 83.3     19.2      -
 0800     30       0      1      4      8      9      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.4 70.0     20.5   26.6      Profile:
 0900      9       0      1      1      0      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.7 77.8     19.7      -
 1000      8       0      0      0      3      2      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.1 87.5     23.4      -      Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1100     14       0      0      0      6      6      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 12.3 85.7     20.5   22.1      Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1200     15       0      0      1      1      6      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.8 86.7     23.8   27.7
 1300     10       0      0      0      2      4      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.2 100.0    23.5      -      Direction:               South (bound)
 1400     23       0      0      0      1     15      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.8 95.7     23.7   26.8      Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1500     45       0      0      3      8     19     14      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.9 86.7     23.0   26.4
 1600     22       0      1      2      1     12      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 81.8     23.1   28.0
                                                                                                                                                      Name:                    TDS Standard
 1700     17       0      0      0      3      8      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.0 88.2     23.1   26.6      Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 1800     21       0      0      0      2     14      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.3 100.0    23.4   25.3      Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
 1900     14       0      0      0      0     13      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.4 100.0    24.0   24.8
 2000      5       0      0      0      0      2      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.6 100.0    25.2      -
 2100     12       0      0      0      3      7      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.1 91.7     22.7   23.7      Column Legend:
 2200      1       0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 10.1 100.0    20.0      -      0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
 2300      2       0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.2 100.0    24.4      -
07-19    220       0      3     12     38    103     62      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.8 82.3     22.5   26.6      1 [Total]                Number in time step
06-22    256       0      3     13     42    128     67      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.8 83.2     22.6   26.4      2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
06-00    259       0      3     13     43    129     68      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.8 83.4     22.6   26.4
00-00    265       1      3     13     47    130     68      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.8 82.3     22.4   26.4
                                                                                                                                                      3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                                                                                                                                                      4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
Peak step 15:00 (45) AM Peak step 8:00 (30) PM Peak step 15:00 (45)                                                                                   5 [Mean]                 Average speed
* Thursday, May 06, 2010
                                                                                                                                                      6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0000      1       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 14.1 100.0    24.1      -      * Tuesday, May 04, 2010
 0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -       Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
 0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -                         0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
 0300      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -                         5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0400      4       0      0      0      0      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 13.9 100.0    23.9      -       0000      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0500      3       0      0      0      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 13.9 100.0    22.1      -       0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0600      8       0      0      2      1      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 13.9 75.0     20.2      -       0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0700     20       0      0      2      3     11      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.6 85.0     21.7   24.8       0300      2       0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   4.0 100.0   13.9      -
 0800     31       1      0      0     11     13      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.3 93.5     20.8   25.1       0400      1       0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   4.0 100.0   13.9      -
 0900      6       0      1      0      1      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.3 83.3     20.3      -       0500      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.0 100.0    29.0      -
 1000     23       0      0      0      0     16      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.7 95.7     23.7   25.9       0600      2       0      0      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 12.3 100.0    21.9      -
 1100     22       0      1      1      5     10      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.6 81.8     21.4   26.4       0700     11       0      0      0      0      4      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.0 90.9     25.9   27.3
 1200     13       0      0      0      2      7      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.7 100.0    23.0   25.5       0800     33       0      0      1      1      9     18      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 84.8     25.8   29.3
 1300     14       0      0      0      1     12      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.4 100.0    22.6   24.6       0900     13       0      0      0      1      2      7      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 69.2     28.0   33.6
 1400     29       1      0      2      6     11      9      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.4 86.2     21.6   25.5       1000     12       0      0      1      3      2      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.1 66.7     23.1   28.6
 1500     29       0      0      1      2      9     16      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.8 89.7     24.5   28.0       1100     10       0      0      0      1      3      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.1 100.0    24.9      -
 1600     18       0      0      0      2     12      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.1 88.9     23.4   25.3       1200     15       0      0      0      1      5      9      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.9 93.3     25.1   27.1
 1700     19       0      1      1      2      7      6      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.5 73.7     23.6   29.1       1300      3       0      0      0      0      0      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.0 100.0    25.1      -
 1800     21       0      1      1      1     15      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.2 90.5     21.8   24.4       1400     20       0      1      1      1      3     11      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 75.0     25.8   29.8
 1900     14       0      0      1      2      5      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.1 85.7     22.9   26.6       1500     40       0      2      1      5     18     13      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.2 82.5     22.5   25.5
 2000     13       0      0      1      6      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 14.8 76.9     20.2   24.6       1600     14       0      1      2      0      4      6      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 71.4     23.7   29.8
 2100      5       0      0      0      2      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.6 100.0    23.3      -       1700     16       0      0      0      0     11      3      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.4 93.8     24.6   27.3
 2200      2       0      0      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 11.9 100.0    21.6      -       1800     20       0      1      0      2      4      8      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 85.0     25.7   30.6
07-19    245       2      4      8     36    126     63      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.7 83.3     22.4   26.2       1900     10       0      1      0      2      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.0 80.0     20.9      -
06-22    285       2      4     12     47    140     74      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.7 81.1     22.3   26.2       2000      7       0      0      0      3      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.0 100.0    20.8      -
06-00    287       2      4     12     47    142     74      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.7 81.2     22.3   26.2       2100      4       0      0      0      0      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 13.0 100.0    22.8      -
00-00    295       2      4     12     48    149     74      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.7 81.7     22.3   26.2       2200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       2300      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
Peak step 8:00 (31) AM Peak step 8:00 (31) PM Peak step 14:00 (29)                                                                                    07-19    207       0      5      6     15     65     95     17      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 79.2     24.8   29.1
                                                                                                                                                      06-22    230       0      6      6     20     80     97     17      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 77.8     24.4   28.9
* Grand Total                                                                                                                                         06-00    230       0      6      6     20     80     97     17      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 77.8     24.4   28.9
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp      00-00    234       0      6      9     20     80     98     17      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 76.9     24.3   28.9
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100                                Peak step 15:00 (40) AM Peak step 8:00 (33) PM Peak step 15:00 (40)
   --    824       4      8     38    136    422    203     13      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.4 81.6     22.4   26.2

In profile:       Vehicles = 824 / 2029 (40.61%)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-2732 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-2735 Page 1

* Wednesday, May 05, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                   0
                   5
                          5
                         10
                                10
                                15
                                       15
                                       20
                                              20
                                              25
                                                     25
                                                     30
                                                            30
                                                            35
                                                                   35
                                                                   40
                                                                          40
                                                                          45
                                                                                 45
                                                                                 50
                                                                                        50
                                                                                        55
                                                                                               55
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                             65
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                          10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Report
 0000      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0300      3       0      0      0      0      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 13.0 100.0    23.0      -      Datasets:
 0400      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -      Site:                    [9E] EB ALTAMEAD DR
 0500      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0600      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -      Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0700     10       0      0      1      0      1      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.8 80.0     26.1      -
 0800     19       0      0      0      0      5     14      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 100.0    26.2   27.7      Profile:
 0900     11       0      0      0      0      4      5      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.2 81.8     26.9   29.1
 1000     10       0      1      1      0      1      3      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.0 70.0     24.8      -      Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1100      8       0      0      0      1      4      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.8 100.0    24.6      -      Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1200     11       0      2      1      0      2      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 72.7     21.9   27.3
 1300     10       0      0      0      0      4      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 100.0    26.0      -      Direction:               East (bound)
 1400     28       0      2      2      1     11     10      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.0 78.6     22.8   27.7      Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1500     44       0      2      2      2     22     15      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.8 84.1     22.7   26.8
 1600     20       0      1      2      0      4     11      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 80.0     24.1   28.4
                                                                                                                                                      Name:                    TDS Standard
 1700     20       0      0      1      1      8     10      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 90.0     24.5   27.3      Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 1800     18       0      0      1      1      7      7      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 83.3     24.3   27.1      Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
 1900     10       0      0      0      0      5      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.3 100.0    25.2      -
 2000      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.6 100.0    26.5      -
 2100      6       0      0      0      0      0      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 100.0    27.1      -      Column Legend:
 2200      2       0      0      0      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.0 100.0    28.0      -      0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
 2300      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
07-19    209       0      8     11      6     73     95     15      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 80.4     24.2   28.6      1 [Total]                Number in time step
06-22    226       0      8     11      6     78    106     16      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 81.4     24.3   28.4      2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
06-00    228       0      8     11      6     78    108     16      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 81.6     24.3   28.4
00-00    231       0      8     11      6     81    108     16      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 81.8     24.3   28.4
                                                                                                                                                      3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                                                                                                                                                      4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
Peak step 15:00 (44) AM Peak step 8:00 (19) PM Peak step 15:00 (44)                                                                                   5 [Mean]                 Average speed
* Thursday, May 06, 2010
                                                                                                                                                      6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0000      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -      * Tuesday, May 04, 2010
 0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -       Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
 0200      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.3 100.0    26.2      -                         0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
 0300      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -                         5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0400      4       0      0      0      0      0      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.0 100.0    27.0      -       0000      1       0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   6.9 100.0   16.9      -
 0500      3       0      0      0      0      0      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.2 100.0    27.1      -       0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0600      2       0      0      0      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.2 100.0    27.1      -       0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0700     11       0      0      1      0      5      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.3 81.8     24.4   27.1       0300      1       0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   9.2 100.0   19.1      -
 0800     41       0      0      0      0     19     22      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.8 100.0    24.9   26.4       0400      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.4 100.0    25.4      -
 0900     10       0      0      0      1      8      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.7 100.0    23.2      -       0500      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 1000     14       1      0      3      1      5      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.9 57.1     19.7   27.7       0600      2       0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.3 100.0    25.4      -
 1100      7       0      0      1      1      2      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.3 71.4     22.2      -       0700     65       0      0      2      4     17     33      8      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 80.0     25.9   29.3
 1200     12       0      0      0      2      6      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.7 83.3     24.2   27.5       0800     60       0      0      0      4     22     28      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.1 88.3     25.4   28.6
 1300      6       0      0      0      0      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.2 100.0    25.1      -       0900     19       0      0      0      1      5      7      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 73.7     27.1   31.1
 1400     23       0      1      3      0     11      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.0 78.3     22.4   28.0       1000     14       0      1      1      1      4      5      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 71.4     22.8   27.3
 1500     33       0      1      0      4     14     12      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.7 87.9     24.0   27.5       1100     15       0      0      1      0      4      6      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.0 80.0     27.2   30.9
 1600     10       0      0      1      0      3      5      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 80.0     26.0      -       1200     13       0      0      1      0      3      2      5      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 76.9     28.9   33.1
 1700     15       0      2      1      0      6      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.5 80.0     21.5   26.6       1300     15       0      0      0      2      5      5      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.7 80.0     25.9   31.8
 1800     22       0      0      2      1      9      9      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.2 86.4     23.6   27.1       1400     20       0      2      0      2      4      6      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.4 60.0     25.8   33.8
 1900     12       0      0      0      0      6      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 91.7     26.8   29.5       1500     76       0      1      1      1     38     29      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.0 89.5     24.9   28.0
 2000      6       0      0      0      1      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.9 100.0    22.5      -       1600     31       0      1      3      2      5     17      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 74.2     24.2   28.4
 2100      2       0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.2 100.0    26.9      -       1700     48       1      2      0      1     11     24      9      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 75.0     25.6   31.1
 2200      2       0      0      0      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.0 100.0    26.9      -       1800     18       0      1      1      1      3     11      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 83.3     24.9   29.1
07-19    204       1      4     12     10     92     76      8      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.0 83.3     23.6   27.3       1900      6       0      0      0      0      2      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.4 100.0    26.8      -
06-22    226       1      4     12     11    103     84     10      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 83.6     23.8   27.5       2000     11       0      0      0      0      5      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.1 100.0    25.6   27.3
06-00    228       1      4     12     11    103     86     10      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 83.8     23.8   27.5       2100      4       0      0      0      0      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.8 100.0    25.9      -
00-00    236       1      4     12     11    103     94     10      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 84.3     23.9   27.5       2200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       2300      3       0      0      0      1      1      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 13.0 66.7     23.7      -
Peak step 8:00 (41) AM Peak step 8:00 (41) PM Peak step 15:00 (33)                                                                                    07-19    394       1      8     10     19    121    173     54      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 76.4     25.5   30.0
                                                                                                                                                      06-22    417       1      8     10     19    131    184     56      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 77.7     25.5   30.0
* Grand Total                                                                                                                                         06-00    420       1      8     10     20    132    184     57      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 77.6     25.5   30.0
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp      00-00    423       1      8     10     22    132    185     57      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 77.3     25.5   30.0
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100                                Peak step 15:00 (76) AM Peak step 7:00 (65) PM Peak step 15:00 (76)
   --    701       1     18     32     37    264    300     43      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 80.6     24.2   28.2

In profile:       Vehicles = 701 / 2029 (34.55%)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-2735 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-2734 Page 1

* Wednesday, May 05, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                   0
                   5
                          5
                         10
                                10
                                15
                                       15
                                       20
                                              20
                                              25
                                                     25
                                                     30
                                                            30
                                                            35
                                                                   35
                                                                   40
                                                                          40
                                                                          45
                                                                                 45
                                                                                 50
                                                                                        50
                                                                                        55
                                                                                               55
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                             65
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                          10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Report
 0000      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0300      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -      Datasets:
 0400      2       0      0      0      1      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.3 100.0    23.0      -      Site:                    [9W] WB ALTAMEAD DR
 0500      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 100.0    33.7      -
 0600      2       0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.6 100.0    26.4      -      Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0700     65       0      0      0      0     18     35     11      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 89.2     27.1   31.1
 0800     66       0      1      4      4     19     32      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.1 78.8     24.6   28.9      Profile:
 0900     21       0      0      2      2      6      9      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 81.0     24.5   29.1
 1000     12       0      0      0      1      4      5      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 91.7     25.9   28.2      Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1100     19       0      2      0      1      5      8      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 78.9     24.3   30.0      Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1200     16       0      0      1      0      6      7      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 87.5     25.3   28.4
 1300      8       0      0      0      0      4      3      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.8 87.5     26.0      -      Direction:               West (bound)
 1400     34       0      1      0      5      8     11      8      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.0 64.7     26.2   31.5      Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1500     74       0      1      1      1     23     36     11      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.3 86.5     26.1   30.2
 1600     36       0      0      1      1     12     15      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.0 80.6     26.0   30.9
                                                                                                                                                      Name:                    TDS Standard
 1700     18       0      0      1      4      4      6      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 61.1     24.6   29.8      Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 1800      9       0      0      2      1      3      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.2 66.7     21.9      -      Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
 1900     61       0      0      0      7     27     21      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 83.6     24.5   28.2
 2000     43       0      0      0      8     22     13      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.2 95.3     23.1   25.7
 2100     14       0      1      2      1      6      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.2 78.6     20.8   25.9      Column Legend:
 2200      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.6 100.0    28.6      -      0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
 2300      2       0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.9 100.0    24.3      -
07-19    378       0      5     12     20    112    170     53      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 78.0     25.6   30.2      1 [Total]                Number in time step
06-22    498       0      6     14     36    168    209     58      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 76.9     25.1   29.5      2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
06-00    501       0      6     14     36    169    211     58      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 77.0     25.1   29.5
00-00    504       0      6     14     37    169    212     59      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 76.8     25.1   29.5
                                                                                                                                                      3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                                                                                                                                                      4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
Peak step 15:00 (74) AM Peak step 8:00 (66) PM Peak step 15:00 (74)                                                                                   5 [Mean]                 Average speed
* Thursday, May 06, 2010
                                                                                                                                                      6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0000      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -      * Tuesday, May 04, 2010
 0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -       Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
 0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -                         0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
 0300      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -                         5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0400      2       0      0      0      1      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.9 100.0    22.8      -       0000      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0500      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -       0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0600      3       0      0      0      0      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.9 100.0    25.1      -       0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0700     67       0      0      5      3     24     26      8      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 80.6     24.9   29.3       0300      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0800     65       0      2      2      3     27     22      8      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.4 76.9     24.8   28.9       0400      2       0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 11.9 100.0    20.0      -
 0900     28       0      1      1      2      2     21      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 85.7     25.0   28.6       0500      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.1 100.0    28.1      -
 1000     11       0      0      1      1      2      5      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.5 81.8     25.1   28.6       0600      4       0      0      0      1      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.8 100.0    23.6      -
 1100     16       0      0      0      2      1     11      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 81.3     27.1   29.8       0700     75       0      0      1      2     13     46     12      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.3 86.7     27.0   30.2
 1200     15       0      0      1      1      7      3      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 80.0     24.9   30.9       0800     27       0      1      1      3      3     13      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 74.1     26.1   31.5
 1300     14       0      0      0      0      3      8      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 92.9     27.4   30.2       0900     14       0      1      2      2      2      4      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 57.1     22.8   30.4
 1400     26       0      2      1      2      8      9      3      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0 20.4 73.1     24.8   30.0       1000     15       0      0      2      1      4      6      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 73.3     24.6   29.8
 1500     70       0      0      1      3     26     35      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 87.1     25.6   29.3       1100     10       0      0      0      0      2      5      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 90.0     28.7      -
 1600     31       0      1      1      2     13      9      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 74.2     24.8   29.8       1200     15       0      0      0      0      1     10      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 93.3     28.9   32.2
 1700     39       0      1      0      2      9     16     11      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 79.5     26.8   31.5       1300     12       0      0      0      0      4      4      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 83.3     27.7   31.1
 1800     36       0      0      0      3      9     15      8      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.1 72.2     26.9   31.8       1400     40       0      3      1      2      5     15     11      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 67.5     26.7   32.7
 1900     14       0      0      1      2      4      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.9 85.7     23.8   27.7       1500     48       0      0      3      1      6     24     14      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 85.4     27.1   31.1
 2000     21       0      1      0      3     11      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.9 85.7     22.6   25.9       1600     40       0      1      2      3      9     14      8      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 72.5     25.8   31.3
 2100     12       0      0      0      0      6      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.8 100.0    24.4   27.5       1700     36       0      1      1      2      4     13     14      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 75.0     28.0   32.9
 2200      3       0      0      0      0      1      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.1 100.0    27.1      -       1800     29       0      1      0      6      4     10      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 62.1     25.4   31.8
07-19    418       0      7     13     24    131    180     57      4      1      0      1      0      0      0      0 21.7 77.3     25.5   30.0       1900     14       0      0      0      4      3      5      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.4 64.3     24.3   28.6
06-22    468       0      8     14     29    154    199     58      4      1      0      1      0      0      0      0 20.6 77.4     25.3   29.8       2000      4       0      0      0      0      1      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 100.0    26.9      -
06-00    471       0      8     14     29    155    200     59      4      1      0      1      0      0      0      0 20.6 77.5     25.3   29.8       2100     10       0      0      0      0      2      5      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.1 80.0     28.2      -
00-00    473       0      8     14     30    155    201     59      4      1      0      1      0      0      0      0 20.6 77.4     25.3   29.8       2200      2       0      0      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 13.6 100.0    21.8      -
                                                                                                                                                       2300      1       0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   2.2 100.0   12.3      -
Peak step 15:00 (70) AM Peak step 7:00 (67) PM Peak step 15:00 (70)                                                                                   07-19    361       0      8     13     22     57    164     85     12      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 73.4     26.6   31.8
                                                                                                                                                      06-22    393       0      8     13     27     64    179     89     13      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 73.0     26.6   31.5
* Grand Total                                                                                                                                         06-00    396       0      8     14     27     66    179     89     13      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 72.5     26.5   31.5
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp      00-00    399       0      8     14     28     67    180     89     13      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 72.2     26.5   31.5
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100                                Peak step 7:00 (75) AM Peak step 7:00 (75) PM Peak step 15:00 (48)
   --    1400      1     22     38     89    456    598    175     19      1      0      1      0      0      0      0 20.6 77.0     25.3   29.8

In profile:       Vehicles = 1400 / 3666 (38.19%)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-2734 Page 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Traffic Data Service
* Wednesday, May 05, 2010                                                                                                                                                                                                                Campbell, CA
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85                                                                                        (408) 377-2988
 0000      0
                   5
                   0
                         10
                          0
                                15
                                 0
                                       20
                                        0
                                              25
                                               0
                                                     30
                                                      0
                                                            35
                                                             0
                                                                   40
                                                                    0
                                                                          45
                                                                           0
                                                                                 50
                                                                                  0
                                                                                        55
                                                                                         0
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                     0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tdsbay@cs.com                                                         File Name            : 1AM FINAL
 0100
 0200
           0
           0
                   0
                   0
                          0
                          0
                                 0
                                 0
                                        0
                                        0
                                               0
                                               0
                                                      0
                                                      0
                                                             0
                                                             0
                                                                    0
                                                                    0
                                                                           0
                                                                           0
                                                                                  0
                                                                                  0
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Site Code            : 00000001
 0300
 0400
           1
           1
                   0
                   0
                          0
                          0
                                 0
                                 0
                                        0
                                        1
                                               1
                                               0
                                                      0
                                                      0
                                                             0
                                                             0
                                                                    0
                                                                    0
                                                                           0
                                                                           0
                                                                                  0
                                                                                  0
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                     0 13.4 100.0
                                                                                                                     0   5.8 100.0
                                                                                                                                     23.3
                                                                                                                                     15.8
                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Start Date           : 7/28/2010
 0500      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 100.0    29.5      -                                                                                                                                                              Page No              :1
 0600      5       0      0      0      0      2      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.3 100.0    25.8      -
 0700     68       0      0      0      1     11     40     15      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 92.6     27.6   30.2
 0800     34       0      0      3      3      5     18      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.1 70.6     25.1   29.8
 0900     12       0      0      0      0      5      5      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.3 83.3     26.2   26.2
 1000     14       0      0      0      1      6      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.5 92.9     25.2   29.3
 1100     13       0      0      2      1      2      6      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.3 69.2     24.7   28.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Groups Printed- Vehicles
 1200     15       0      0      1      0      3      7      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.3 93.3     26.3   30.9                            MIRAMONTE AVE                   COVINGTON RD                    MIRAMONTE AVE                   COVINGTON RD
 1300     18       0      0      0      1      4      9      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.1 77.8     27.3   30.0                               Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound
 1400     49       0      1      1      2      5     26     11      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 77.6     27.4   32.2       Start Time Right     Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                                          App. Total   Int. Total
 1500     68       0      0      4      3      9     29     18      2      2      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 73.5     28.0   32.9
 1600     32       0      1      4      2      5     10      9      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 68.8     25.3   32.7        07:00 AM       2      15     0    0      17      4     9    2    1       16      3    20    0     0      23      1    13    9    2                                               25          81
 1700     28       0      1      4      1      3     10      6      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 60.7     26.3   33.1        07:15 AM       1      18     6    0      25      6     3    1    0       10      4    23    3     0      30      0    21    6    0                                               27          92
 1800     81       0      0      5      5     19     34     16      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 79.0     26.3   30.6        07:30 AM       5      26     4    0      35      6    12    4    1       23      8    45    1     0      54      0    15   13    1                                               29         141
 1900     25       0      0      1      0      6     13      3      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 84.0     27.2   30.6
 2000     16       0      0      0      2      5      7      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.2 75.0     25.6   29.1
                                                                                                                                                        07:45 AM      10      29     7    1      47     10    26    4    4       44      9    43    2     2      56      0    29   14    1                                               44         191
 2100     10       0      1      0      0      3      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.6 90.0     23.6      -            Total     18      88    17    1    124      26    50   11    6       93     24 131      6     2    163       1    78   42    4                                              125         505
 2200      3       0      0      0      0      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 100.0    27.5      -
 2300      3       0      0      0      0      1      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.2 66.7     27.3      -        08:00 AM       1     32     10      1         44         9     30       3       3         45         3     68       0       0         71         2     26     22       3         53         213
07-19    432       0      3     24     20     77    200     89     15      3      1      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 73.4     26.7   31.3
06-22    488       0      4     25     22     93    229     94     17      3      1      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 74.4     26.6   31.1
                                                                                                                                                        08:15 AM      13     32     15      0         60         5     26       3       3         37         7     76       3       0         86         3     35     21       1         60         243
06-00    494       0      4     25     22     95    232     95     17      3      1      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 74.3     26.6   31.1        08:30 AM       7     38      8      3         56        11     25       5       0         41        10     71       1       1         83        10     33     26       2         71         251
00-00    497       0      4     25     23     96    233     95     17      3      1      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 74.2     26.6   31.1        08:45 AM       8     21     13      0         42        13     36       6       4         59        18     89       2       0        109         3     34     18       0         55         265
                                                                                                                                                            Total     29    123     46      4        202        38    117      17      10        182        38    304       6       1        349        18    128     87       6        239         972
Peak step 18:00 (81) AM Peak step 7:00 (68) PM Peak step 18:00 (81)
                                                                                                                                                       Grand Total     47    211     63      5       326        64     167     28      16        275        62     435     12       3        512        19    206    129     10         364       1477
* Thursday, May 06, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp        Apprch %     14.4   64.7   19.3    1.5                23.3    60.7   10.2     5.8                 12.1      85    2.3     0.6                  5.2    56.6   35.4    2.7
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85          Total %     3.2   14.3    4.3    0.3      22.1       4.3    11.3    1.9     1.1       18.6       4.2    29.5    0.8     0.2       34.7       1.3    13.9    8.7    0.7       24.6
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0000      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0300      1       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 13.4 100.0    23.5      -
 0400      1       0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   9.4 100.0   19.4      -                            MIRAMONTE AVE                             COVINGTON RD                                MIRAMONTE AVE                               COVINGTON RD
 0500      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0600      4       0      0      0      1      0      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.3 100.0    24.5      -                              Southbound                                Westbound                                   Northbound                                  Eastbound
 0700     66       0      0      1      4     17     28     15      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 78.8     27.0   32.0
 0800     31       0      0      0      1      8     14      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.3 83.9     27.4   30.9       Start Time Right     Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
 0900     17       0      0      0      2      7      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.5 82.4     24.7   27.1
 1000     20       0      0      2      1      4      7      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.9 80.0     25.6   31.1
                                                                                                                                                      Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
 1100     18       0      0      0      1      2     10      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 83.3     27.6   31.1      Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
 1200     14       0      0      0      1      4      4      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 71.4     27.1   31.5        08:00 AM        1     32     10      1       44     9   30               3       3        45         3      68       0       0        71          2     26     22       3        53         213
 1300     21       0      1      2      0      4      8      4      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.0 66.7     26.0   32.2        08:15 AM      13      32     15      0       60     5   26               3       3        37         7      76       3       0        86          3     35     21       1        60         243
 1400     38       0      0      1      3      8     14     11      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 81.6     26.8   31.1
 1500     59       0      2      3      1     12     29     11      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 79.7     25.7   30.4
                                                                                                                                                        08:30 AM        7     38      8      3       56    11  25                5       0        41        10      71       1       1        83         10     33     26       2        71         251
 1600     36       0      2      1      0      8     15      5      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 72.2     26.7   32.4        08:45 AM        8     21     13      0       42    13  36                6       4        59        18      89       2       0       109          3     34     18       0        55         265
 1700     43       0      0      0      2      6     23     11      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 86.0     27.8   30.9       Total Volume   29 123         46      4      202    38 117               17      10       182        38     304       6       1       349         18    128     87       6       239         972
 1800     43       0      0      1      2     12     15      8      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.3 69.8     27.6   34.0       % App. Total 14.4 60.9 22.8           2           20.9 64.3             9.3     5.5                10.9    87.1     1.7     0.3                  7.5   53.6   36.4     2.5
 1900     28       0      1      3      3      9      9      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.3 67.9     23.5   29.5
 2000     29       0      0      1      2     15      8      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.8 79.3     24.3   28.6               PHF .558 .809 .767 .333             .842 .731 .813            .708    .625       .771      .528    .854   .500    .250       .800      .450    .914   .837   .500       .842        .917
 2100      7       0      0      0      1      3      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.1 85.7     24.8      -
 2200      3       0      0      0      1      1      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 14.8 66.7     25.1      -
 2300      3       0      0      1      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.2 66.7     22.0      -
07-19    406       0      5     11     18     92    174     87     17      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 75.4     26.8   31.3
06-22    474       0      6     15     25    119    196     94     17      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 74.3     26.4   31.1
06-00    480       0      6     16     26    120    198     95     17      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 74.2     26.3   31.1
00-00    482       0      6     16     27    121    198     95     17      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 74.1     26.3   31.1

Peak step 7:00 (66) AM Peak step 7:00 (66) PM Peak step 15:00 (59)

* Grand Total
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
   --    1378      0     18     55     78    284    611    279     47      5      1      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 72.8     26.5   31.1

In profile:       Vehicles = 1378 / 3666 (37.59%)
                                        Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                        Traffic Data Service
                                                Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                Campbell, CA
                                               (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                              (408) 377-2988
                                               tdsbay@cs.com                           File Name              : 1AM FINAL                                                                                  tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name       : 1AM FINAL
                                                                                       Site Code              : 00000001                                                                                                                                                       Site Code       : 00000001
                                                                                       Start Date             : 7/28/2010                                                                                                                                                      Start Date      : 7/28/2010
                                                                                       Page No                :2            BIKES                                                                                                                                              Page No         :1
                                                 MIRAMONTE AVE
                                              Out      In    Total
                                               429      202    631
                                                                                                                                                                                           Groups Printed- Bikes
                                              29   123          46    4                                                                          MIRAMONTE AVE                   COVINGTON RD                    MIRAMONTE AVE                   COVINGTON RD
                                           Right Thru        Left Peds                                                                              Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound
                                                                                                                             Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                                     App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                              07:00 AM       0      0    0     0        0     0     0    0    0         0     0     1    0     0        1     0     0    0    0                                             0          1
                                                                                                                              07:15 AM       0      3    0     0        3     0     3    0    0         3     0     0    0     0        0     0     0    0    0                                             0          6
                                                                                                                              07:30 AM       0      1    0     0        1     0     1    0    0         1     1     0    0     0        1     0     1    0    0                                             1          4
                                                                                                                              07:45 AM       1      1    0     0        2     0     1    0    0         1     0     1    0     0        1     0     2    1    0                                             3          7
                                                                                                                                  Total      1      5    0     0        6     0     5    0    0         5     1     2    0     0        3     0     3    1    0                                             4         18

                                                                                                                              08:00 AM       0      1     0      0            1       0      0      0      0            0       0      1      0      0            1       0      1      0      0            1          3
                                          Peak Hour Data                                                                      08:15 AM       0      1     1      0            2       0      0      0      0            0       0      2      0      0            2       0      2      0      0            2          6
                                                                                                                              08:30 AM       0      1     0      0            1       0      0      0      0            0       0      1      0      0            1       0      2      0      0            2          4
               391


                        87




                                                                          Right Thru
              Total




                      Left




                                                                                                                              08:45 AM       0      0     0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      1      0      0            1       0      3      0      0            3          4




                                                                                        Out
                                                                             38


                                                                                         212
                                                                                                                                  Total      0      3     1      0            4       0      0      0      0            0       0      5      0      0            5       0      8      0      0            8         17
  COVINGTON RD




                                                                                           COVINGTON RD
                                                         North
                                  128
                      Peds Right Thru




                                                                                 117
        239




                                                                                                                             Grand Total     1      8     1      0          10        0       5     0      0            5       1       7     0      0            8       0      11      1     0          12          35
        In




                                                                                                In
                                        Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM




                                                                                                182
                                                                                                                              Apprch %     10     80    10       0                    0     100     0      0                 12.5    87.5     0      0                    0    91.7    8.3     0
                              18




                                                                          Left Peds
                                        Vehicles
                                                                                                                                Total %    2.9   22.9   2.9      0       28.6         0    14.3     0      0       14.3       2.9      20     0      0       22.9         0    31.4    2.9     0       34.3




                                                                            17
 152
Out




                                                                                                      Total
                         6




                                                                                                        394
                                                                                 10                                                              MIRAMONTE AVE                             COVINGTON RD                              MIRAMONTE AVE                             COVINGTON RD
                                                                                                                                                   Southbound                                Westbound                                 Northbound                                Eastbound
                                                                                                                             Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

                                                                                                                            Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
                                                                                                                            Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                                                                                              07:15 AM        0       3     0      0        3    0    3              0      0           3       0       0      0      0           0       0       0      0      0           0          6
                                                                                                                              07:30 AM        0       1     0      0        1    0    1              0      0           1       1       0      0      0           1       0       1      0      0           1          4
                                                                                                                              07:45 AM        1       1     0      0        2    0    1              0      0           1       0       1      0      0           1       0       2      1      0           3          7
                                            Left       Thru Right Peds
                                                   6     304   38     1                                                       08:00 AM        0       1     0      0        1    0    0              0      0           0       0       1      0      0           1       0       1      0      0           1          3
                                                                                                                             Total Volume     1       6     0      0        7    0    5              0      0           5       1       2      0      0           3       0       4      1      0           5         20
                                                                                                                             % App. Total 14.3 85.7         0      0             0 100               0      0                33.3    66.7      0      0                   0      80     20      0
                                               158      349    507
                                                                                                                                     PHF .250 .500 .000 .000             .583 .000 .417           .000   .000      .417      .250    .500   .000   .000      .750      .000    .500   .250   .000      .417        .714
                                              Out      In    Total
                                                 MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CustomList-3092 Page 1
                                                Traffic Data Service
                                                         Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                Traffic Data Service
                                                        (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                  Speed Report
                                                        tdsbay@cs.com                                 File Name             : 1AM FINAL
                                                                                                      Site Code             : 00000001
                                                                                                                                          Datasets:
                                                                                                      Start Date            : 7/28/2010   Site:                         [1E] EB COVINGTON RD W/O MIRAMONTE AVE
BIKES                                                                                                 Page No               :2            Data type:                    Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)

                                                                                                                                          Profile:
                                                           MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                        Out      In    Total                                                              Included classes:             1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
                                                            3       7     10                                                              Speed range:                  0 - 100 mph.
                                                                                                                                          Direction:                    East (bound)
                                                       1     6              0       0                                                     Separation:                   All - (Headway)
                                                   Right Thru        Left       Peds                                                      Name:                         Default Profile
                                                                                                                                          Scheme:                       Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
                                                                                                                                          Units:                        Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)

                                                                                                                                          Column Legend:
                                                                                                                                          0 [Time]                      24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
                                                                                                                                          1 [Total]                     Number in time step
                                                                                                                                          2 [Vbin]                      Speed bin totals
                                                  Peak Hour Data                                                                          3 [vPace]                     Speed at start of pace
                                                                                                                                          4 [Pace%]                     Percent in pace
                        11


                                 1




                                                                                        Right Thru
                     Total




                             Left




                                                                                                                                          5 [Mean]                      Average speed




                                                                                                       Out
                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                          6 [Vpp]                       Percentile speed
         COVINGTON RD




                                                                                                         COVINGTON RD
                                                                                                           5
                                                                 North
                                            4
                             Peds Right Thru
                  5
               In




                                                                                                  5



                                                                                                              In
                                                Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM
                                      0




                                                                                        Left Peds



                                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                                          * Wednesday, July 28, 2010
                                                Bikes                                                                                      Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp




                                                                                            0
            6
        Out




                                                                                                                                                             0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85




                                                                                                                    Total
                                0




                                                                                                                                                             5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100




                                                                                                                       10
                                                                                                                                           0000      4       0      1      0      0      0      0      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 28.4 75.0     27.2      -
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                           0100      2       0      0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.5 100.0    29.2      -
                                                                                                                                           0200      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 100.0    31.7      -
                                                                                                                                           0300      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.3 100.0    31.2      -
                                                                                                                                           0400      5       0      0      0      1      1      0      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 28.2 60.0     28.8      -
                                                                                                                                           0500     12       0      0      1      0      1      2      7      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 75.0     30.2   33.8
                                                                                                                                           0600     34       0      0      0      2      2     13     11      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.4 76.5     30.4   35.1
                                                                                                                                           0700    113       0      0      0      0     10     32     57     13      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 82.3     30.7   34.4
                                                                                                                                           0800    217       0      0      1      3     18     81     79     31      4      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.6 77.0     30.4   34.9
                                                                                                                                           0900    138       0      0      0      3      4     59     55     14      2      1      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 83.3     30.5   34.2
                                                                                                                                           1000    128       0      1      1      0      4     36     66     18      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.5 85.2     31.3   34.9
                                                                                                                                           1100    109       0      0      2      2      5     36     48     16      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.5 81.7     30.7   34.7
                                                                                                                                           1200    128       0      1      3      1      4     35     55     27      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.2 79.7     31.3   35.6
                                                                                                                                           1300    131       0      2      1      1      5     33     63     24      1      0      1      0      0      0      0 26.4 77.9     31.5   35.8
                                                                                                                                           1400    132       0      0      0      0      5     48     49     28      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.6 81.8     31.4   36.0
                                                                                                                                           1500    159       0      0      1      2      8     39     80     27      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.1 79.9     31.4   35.6
                                                                                                                                           1600    155       0      1      3      3      9     41     68     25      3      2      0      0      0      0      0 28.2 73.5     31.1   35.8
                                                    Left       Thru Right Peds                                                             1700    169       0      0      2      0      7     52     91     16      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 87.0     30.8   34.4
                                                           0       2    1     0                                                            1800    146       0      0      1      3      7     31     78     24      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.2 80.1     31.4   35.3
                                                                                                                                           1900     90       0      0      0      2      3     19     46     16      2      1      1      0      0      0      0 26.2 80.0     32.2   36.0
                                                                                                                                           2000     54       1      0      0      1      7     13     26      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 74.1     29.8   34.0
                                                                                                                                           2100     43       0      0      1      0      7     12     18      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 81.4     29.2   33.3
                                                            6       3      9                                                               2200     27       0      0      0      0      2      9     13      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.1 88.9     30.9   34.0
                                                        Out      In    Total                                                               2300     14       0      0      0      1      1      3      7      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 78.6     30.0   34.7
                                                           MIRAMONTE AVE                                                                  07-19   1725       0      5     15     18     86    523    789    263     22      3      1      0      0      0      0 26.6 79.1     31.0   35.3
                                                                                                                                          06-22   1946       1      5     16     23    105    580    890    295     25      4      2      0      0      0      0 26.6 78.8     31.0   35.3
                                                                                                                                          06-00   1987       1      5     16     24    108    592    910    300     25      4      2      0      0      0      0 26.6 78.9     31.0   35.3
                                                                                                                                          00-00   2012       1      6     17     25    110    595    924    302     26      4      2      0      0      0      0 26.6 78.7     31.0   35.3

                                                                                                                                          Peak step 8:00 (217) AM Peak step 8:00 (217) PM Peak step 17:00 (169)
                                                                                                                                 CustomList-3092 Page 2                                                                                                                                   CustomList-3091 Page 1
* Thursday, July 29, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin    Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                    Traffic Data Service
                   0       5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5      10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100                                                                                                 Speed Report
 0000      6       0       0      0      0      0      2      1      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.4 83.3     33.4      -
 0100      0       0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0200      2       0       0      0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 100.0    33.3      -
 0300      1       0       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 100.0    33.2      -
 0400      0       0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -         Datasets:
 0500     12       0       0      2      0      0      2      5      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 58.3     30.0   37.8
 0600     40       0       0      0      0      6     13     14      5      0      2      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 70.0     30.8   35.3         Site:                         [1W] WB COVINGTON RD W/O MIRAMONTE AVE
 0700     90       0       0      1      0      8     25     36     16      4      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.4 72.2     31.5   36.2
 0800    227       0       0      5      2     16     92     87     23      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 79.7     29.9   33.6
                                                                                                                                                          Data type:                    Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0900    169       0       0      0      2     11     70     64     19      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 81.1     30.3   34.2
 1000    109       0       1      0      0      5     47     44     10      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 83.5     30.7   34.2
 1100    127       0       0      0      3      9     43     46     24      1      1      0      0      0      0      0 26.4 75.6     30.7   35.6         Profile:
 1200    137       0       0      1      2      4     45     64     17      4      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.4 82.5     31.1   34.7
 1300    131       0       0      0      1      6     40     55     24      5      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 78.6     31.7   36.0         Included classes:             1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1400
 1500
         111
         141
                   0
                   0
                           0
                           0
                                  2
                                  1
                                         0
                                         1
                                                6
                                                8
                                                      30
                                                      42
                                                             48
                                                             72
                                                                    24
                                                                    15
                                                                            1
                                                                            1
                                                                                   0
                                                                                   0
                                                                                          0
                                                                                          1
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                      0 27.3 81.1
                                                                                                                      0 26.6 85.1
                                                                                                                                      31.4
                                                                                                                                      31.1
                                                                                                                                             35.3
                                                                                                                                             34.4
                                                                                                                                                          Speed range:                  0 - 100 mph.
 1600    155       0       0      1      0      8     57     61     26      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 81.3     31.2   35.3         Direction:                    West (bound)
 1700    162       0       0      3      4      5     53     67     24      6      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.4 75.9     31.1   35.6
 1800    156       0       0      0      1      7     58     63     24      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.8 81.4     31.2   35.3         Separation:                   All - (Headway)
 1900     79       0       0      1      1      1     25     42      7      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.3 87.3     31.4   34.7
 2000     75       0       0      1      0      9     27     24     13      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 70.7     30.5   35.3
                                                                                                                                                          Name:                         Default Profile
 2100     40       0       1      0      0      4      8     17      8      0      2      0      0      0      0      0 27.7 75.0     31.9   36.7         Scheme:                       Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 2200     21       0       0      0      0      1      5     13      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 90.5     31.6   34.0
 2300     12       0       1      0      0      0      2      6      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 83.3     30.8   35.1         Units:                        Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
07-19   1715       0       1     14     16     93    602    707    246     34      1      1      0      0      0      0 26.4 78.8     30.9   35.1
06-22   1949       0       2     16     17    113    675    804    279     37      5      1      0      0      0      0 26.4 78.0     31.0   35.1
06-00   1982       0       3     16     17    114    682    823    282     39      5      1      0      0      0      0 26.4 78.2     31.0   35.1         Column Legend:
00-00   2003       0       3     18     17    114    686    831    287     41      5      1      0      0      0      0 26.4 78.0     31.0   35.1         0 [Time]                      24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
Peak step 8:00 (227) AM Peak step 8:00 (227) PM Peak step 17:00 (162)                                                                                     1 [Total]                     Number in time step
* Grand Total
                                                                                                                                                          2 [Vbin]                      Speed bin totals
 Time   Total   Vbin    Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp         3 [vPace]                     Speed at start of pace
                   0       5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5      10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
                                                                                                                                                          4 [Pace%]                     Percent in pace
   --    4015      1       9     35     42    224   1281   1755    589     67      9      3      0      0      0      0 26.4 78.2     31.0   35.1         5 [Mean]                      Average speed
In profile:            Vehicles = 4015 / 10449 (38.42%)                                                                                                   6 [Vpp]                       Percentile speed


                                                                                                                                                          * Wednesday, July 28, 2010
                                                                                                                                                          Time    Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                                                                                                                                                                             0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                             5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
                                                                                                                                                           0000      7       0      0      0      0      1      1      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.3 85.7     29.6      -
                                                                                                                                                           0100      6       0      0      0      0      1      3      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 83.3     29.7      -
                                                                                                                                                           0200      3       0      0      0      0      0      0      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 100.0    32.1      -
                                                                                                                                                           0300      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 28.9 100.0    38.9      -
                                                                                                                                                           0400      5       0      0      0      0      0      2      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 80.0     31.8      -
                                                                                                                                                           0500      3       0      0      0      0      0      1      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.7 100.0    33.1      -
                                                                                                                                                           0600     25       0      0      0      2      2      9      6      3      2      1      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 60.0     30.5   36.5
                                                                                                                                                           0700     77       0      0      1      3      1     33     27     10      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.5 84.4     30.6   34.9
                                                                                                                                                           0800    159       0      0      0      1      6     61     64     27      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 83.0     30.9   35.3
                                                                                                                                                           0900    134       0      0      2      3      8     62     50      9      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 83.6     29.4   33.3
                                                                                                                                                           1000    101       0      1      0      1      2     32     56      9      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 92.1     30.7   33.6
                                                                                                                                                           1100    104       0      0      1      0      1     48     45      8      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 90.4     30.5   34.0
                                                                                                                                                           1200    135       0      2      6      0      5     44     53     20      5      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.4 78.5     30.4   35.1
                                                                                                                                                           1300    127       0      1      4      1      3     42     62     13      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.2 85.0     30.4   34.2
                                                                                                                                                           1400    135       0      0      1      0      7     45     62     18      1      1      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 80.7     31.2   34.9
                                                                                                                                                           1500    169       0      0      3      2      6     54     87     16      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 83.4     30.4   34.0
                                                                                                                                                           1600    186       0      0      4      2     10     49     78     36      7      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.6 72.0     31.3   36.5
                                                                                                                                                           1700    187       0      0      0      0      5     55     88     37      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.6 85.0     31.9   35.6
                                                                                                                                                           1800    176       0      0      1      3      2     57     80     33      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.3 85.2     31.5   35.1
                                                                                                                                                           1900    129       0      0      3      3      5     64     42     11      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 84.5     29.4   33.1
                                                                                                                                                           2000     89       0      0      0      0      8     32     37     12      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 80.9     30.5   34.2
                                                                                                                                                           2100     54       0      0      1      0      4     24     21      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 87.0     29.4   33.1
                                                                                                                                                           2200     32       0      1      0      0      3     13      8      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 71.9     30.5   35.3
                                                                                                                                                           2300     16       0      0      0      0      0      9      5      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.5 93.8     30.5   33.8
                                                                                                                                                          07-19   1690       0      4     23     16     56    582    752    236     20      1      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 82.1     30.8   34.9
                                                                                                                                                          06-22   1987       0      4     27     21     75    711    858    266     23      2      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 81.9     30.7   34.9
                                                                                                                                                          06-00   2035       0      5     27     21     78    733    871    274     24      2      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 81.7     30.7   34.9
                                                                                                                                                          00-00   2060       0      5     27     21     80    740    884    277     24      2      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 81.7     30.7   34.9

                                                                                                                                                          Peak step 17:00 (187) AM Peak step 8:00 (159) PM Peak step 17:00 (187)
                                                                                                                                 CustomList-3091 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-3094 Page 1
* Thursday, July 29, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin    Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                    Traffic Data Service
                   0       5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85

 0000      3
                   5
                   0
                          10
                           0
                                 15
                                  0
                                        20
                                         0
                                               25
                                                0
                                                      30
                                                       0
                                                             35
                                                              1
                                                                    40
                                                                     1
                                                                           45
                                                                            0
                                                                                  50
                                                                                   1
                                                                                         55
                                                                                          0
                                                                                                60
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                       65
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                              70
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                    100
                                                                                                                      0 29.1 66.7     39.2      -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Speed Report
 0100      5       0       0      0      0      0      1      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 100.0    30.2      -
 0200      3       0       0      0      0      0      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 100.0    28.8      -
 0300      3       0       0      0      0      0      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.1 100.0    28.8      -
 0400      4       0       0      0      0      0      1      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 75.0     33.9      -         Datasets:
 0500      9       0       0      0      0      0      3      3      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 28.4 88.9     33.0      -
 0600     23       0       0      0      2      2      9      7      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 69.6     29.4   33.8         Site:                    [2E] EB COVINGTON RD E/O MIRAMONTE AVE
 0700     63       0       0      0      1      3     24     28      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 82.5     30.7   34.2
 0800    153       0       0      0      1      8     69     58     15      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 85.6     30.2   34.0         Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0900    110       0       0      3      1      6     39     46     13      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 78.2     30.4   34.7
 1000    122       0       0      2      0      3     44     58     14      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 84.4     30.6   34.4
 1100    155       0       0      0      3      4     48     70     28      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.8 80.6     31.4   36.0         Profile:
 1200    141       0       0      0      1      9     43     72     13      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 83.0     31.1   34.4
 1300    122       0       0      1      2      6     37     55     18      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 77.0     31.2   35.6         Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1400    108       0       0      1      0      5     38     50     12      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 81.5     31.0   34.4
 1500    163       0       1      4      1      3     53     80     20      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.2 84.7     30.8   34.9
                                                                                                                                                          Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1600    199       0       0      1      1     13     56     96     26      6      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.8 81.4     31.2   35.1         Direction:               East (bound)
 1700    210       0       1      3      3      5     66     94     35      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.4 81.9     31.0   35.3
 1800    178       1       0      2      2      6     65     78     23      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.4 86.5     30.6   34.4         Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1900    149       0       0      0      1     10     63     63     11      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 85.2     29.9   33.6
 2000     87       0       0      2      1      6     34     40      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 85.1     29.5   33.3         Name:                    Default Profile
 2100
 2200
          75
          35
                   0
                   0
                           0
                           0
                                  0
                                  0
                                         1
                                         0
                                                4
                                                3
                                                      27
                                                      14
                                                             36
                                                             12
                                                                     6
                                                                     5
                                                                            1
                                                                            0
                                                                                   0
                                                                                   1
                                                                                          0
                                                                                          0
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                      0 25.1 85.3
                                                                                                                      0 24.2 80.0
                                                                                                                                      30.3
                                                                                                                                      30.8
                                                                                                                                             34.0
                                                                                                                                             35.3
                                                                                                                                                          Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 2300     15       0       0      0      0      1      5      5      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.4 86.7     31.5   35.8         Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
07-19   1724       1       2     17     16     71    582    785    223     27      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.2 81.3     30.9   34.9
06-22   2058       1       2     19     21     93    715    931    246     30      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 81.0     30.7   34.7
06-00   2108       1       2     19     21     97    734    948    255     30      1      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 80.9     30.7   34.7         Column Legend:
00-00   2135       1       2     19     21     97    743    960    260     30      2      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 80.9     30.7   34.7
                                                                                                                                                          0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
Peak step 17:00 (210) AM Peak step 11:00 (155) PM Peak step 17:00 (210)                                                                                   1 [Total]                Number in time step
* Grand Total                                                                                                                                             2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
 Time   Total   Vbin    Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp         3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                   0       5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5      10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100                                   4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
   --    4195      1       7     46     42    177   1483   1844    537     54      4      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 81.3     30.7   34.7         5 [Mean]                 Average speed
In profile:            Vehicles = 4195 / 10449 (40.15%)                                                                                                   6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed


                                                                                                                                                          * Wednesday, July 28, 2010
                                                                                                                                                           Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                                                                                                                                                                             0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                             5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
                                                                                                                                                           0000      5       0      0      0      0      1      2      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.1 80.0     28.7      -
                                                                                                                                                           0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                           0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                           0300      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.8 100.0    36.8      -
                                                                                                                                                           0400      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.2 100.0    29.2      -
                                                                                                                                                           0500     15       0      0      1      0      2      3      8      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 73.3     29.5   34.0
                                                                                                                                                           0600     26       0      0      1      0      0     17      6      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 88.5     29.2   32.2
                                                                                                                                                           0700    119       0      0      2      2      7     55     49      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 89.9     29.1   32.2
                                                                                                                                                           0800    207       0      1      3      3      9    114     64     13      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 86.5     28.9   32.2
                                                                                                                                                           0900    169       0      0      0      3     11     98     48      8      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 87.6     28.9   32.4
                                                                                                                                                           1000    127       0      1      2      0      9     71     40      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 87.4     28.6   32.7
                                                                                                                                                           1100    103       0      0      0      0      9     53     30     11      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 85.4     29.8   33.1
                                                                                                                                                           1200    151       0      1      1      4     12     68     60      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 86.1     28.9   32.0
                                                                                                                                                           1300    129       0      1      1      1     11     72     39      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 87.6     28.8   32.2
                                                                                                                                                           1400    123       0      0      0      1     17     60     39      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 84.6     28.8   32.0
                                                                                                                                                           1500    194       0      0      2      3     29    105     51      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 86.6     28.1   31.1
                                                                                                                                                           1600    183       0      1      2      3     12    101     57      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 86.9     28.8   32.2
                                                                                                                                                           1700    194       0      0      0      1      7    116     62      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 91.8     29.3   31.8
                                                                                                                                                           1800    139       0      0      1      2     10     71     46      8      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 84.9     29.3   32.9
                                                                                                                                                           1900    113       0      1      1      0      6     56     44      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 89.4     29.3   32.4
                                                                                                                                                           2000     48       0      0      0      1      6     22     16      2      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 89.6     29.1   31.5
                                                                                                                                                           2100     48       0      0      0      1      1     31     15      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 95.8     28.4   31.1
                                                                                                                                                           2200     34       0      0      0      0      5     15     10      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.9 79.4     29.4   32.4
                                                                                                                                                           2300     25       0      0      0      0      2      8     12      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 80.0     31.2   33.8
                                                                                                                                                          07-19   1838       0      5     14     23    143    984    585     80      4      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 86.1     28.9   32.2
                                                                                                                                                          06-22   2073       0      6     16     25    156   1110    666     88      5      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 86.4     28.9   32.2
                                                                                                                                                          06-00   2132       0      6     16     25    163   1133    688     92      8      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 86.2     29.0   32.2
                                                                                                                                                          00-00   2154       0      6     17     25    166   1139    697     95      8      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 85.9     29.0   32.2

                                                                                                                                                          Peak step 8:00 (207) AM Peak step 8:00 (207) PM Peak step 15:00 (194)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-3094 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-3093 Page 1

* Thursday, July 29, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                   0
                   5
                          5
                         10
                                10
                                15
                                       15
                                       20
                                              20
                                              25
                                                     25
                                                     30
                                                            30
                                                            35
                                                                   35
                                                                   40
                                                                          40
                                                                          45
                                                                                 45
                                                                                 50
                                                                                        50
                                                                                        55
                                                                                               55
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                             65
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                          10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Report
 0000      4       0      0      0      1      0      1      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.2 50.0     29.1      -
 0100      2       0      0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 100.0    30.8      -
 0200      2       0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 100.0    26.8      -
 0300      2       0      0      0      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 100.0    28.2      -      Datasets:
 0400      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 100.0    33.1      -      Site:                    [2W] WB COVINGTON RD E/O MIRAMONTE AVE
 0500     11       0      0      0      1      1      2      3      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 63.6     31.1   34.9
 0600     26       0      0      0      0      3     15      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 92.3     28.9   32.2      Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0700     76       0      0      1      1     10     37     22      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 80.3     28.8   32.9
 0800    234       0      0      1      3     34    127     63      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 86.8     28.1   31.5      Profile:
 0900    197       0      0      1      2     27    100     58      8      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 84.3     28.7   32.7
 1000    136       0      0      2      0     18     72     39      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 82.4     28.3   32.4      Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1100    140       0      0      0      2     15     78     42      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 87.1     28.5   31.3      Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1200    148       0      1      2      2     16     79     40      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 84.5     28.5   31.5
 1300    136       0      1      1      1     21     58     47      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 80.9     28.6   32.4      Direction:               West (bound)
 1400     97       0      0      3      3     14     44     30      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 79.4     27.6   31.8      Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1500    202       0      0      4      2     20    102     69      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 87.1     28.4   32.0
 1600    166       0      0      2      1      9     89     58      5      0      2      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 89.2     29.5   32.9
                                                                                                                                                      Name:                    Default Profile
 1700    186       0      1      1      2     15     89     69      9      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 85.5     29.1   32.7      Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 1800    166       0      0      4      2     14     76     59     11      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 83.7     29.0   32.4      Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
 1900    102       0      2      2      6      7     43     37      3      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 81.4     28.2   32.7
 2000     73       0      0      0      1      7     29     31      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 83.6     29.5   33.1
 2100     53       0      0      0      1      3     26     17      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 83.0     29.6   33.6      Column Legend:
 2200     33       0      0      0      1      2     11     13      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 78.8     30.6   35.1      0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
 2300     16       0      0      0      0      4      5      4      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 68.8     29.5   34.9
07-19   1884       0      3     22     21    213    951    596     73      3      2      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 83.8     28.6   32.2      1 [Total]                Number in time step
06-22   2138       0      5     24     29    233   1064    689     86      6      2      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 83.5     28.6   32.2      2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
06-00   2187       0      5     24     30    239   1080    706     94      7      2      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 83.3     28.7   32.4
00-00   2209       0      5     24     32    241   1087    712     98      8      2      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 83.0     28.7   32.4
                                                                                                                                                      3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                                                                                                                                                      4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
Peak step 8:00 (234) AM Peak step 8:00 (234) PM Peak step 15:00 (202)                                                                                 5 [Mean]                 Average speed
* Grand Total
                                                                                                                                                      6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
   --    4363      0     11     41     57    407   2226   1409    193     16      3      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 84.3     28.8   32.2      * Wednesday, July 28, 2010
                                                                                                                                                       Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
In profile:       Vehicles = 4363 / 10664 (40.91%)                                                                                                                       0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                         5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
                                                                                                                                                       0000      9       0      0      0      0      1      1      4      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.8 77.8     32.5      -
                                                                                                                                                       0100      6       0      0      0      0      2      1      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.5 83.3     28.6      -
                                                                                                                                                       0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0300      2       0      0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 100.0    29.9      -
                                                                                                                                                       0400      5       0      0      0      0      2      0      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 100.0    29.2      -
                                                                                                                                                       0500      5       0      0      0      0      2      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 100.0    26.5      -
                                                                                                                                                       0600     32       0      0      2      1      2     12     13      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 81.3     28.1   32.2
                                                                                                                                                       0700     87       0      0      1      3      6     42     29      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 82.8     28.8   32.0
                                                                                                                                                       0800    173       0      0      0      0     14    100     51      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 91.3     29.1   31.8
                                                                                                                                                       0900    155       0      0      2      2     20     85     42      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 85.8     28.4   32.2
                                                                                                                                                       1000     94       0      0      1      0      7     54     29      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 89.4     28.8   32.0
                                                                                                                                                       1100    104       0      0      2      0     11     46     38      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 84.6     29.3   32.9
                                                                                                                                                       1200    134       0      0      2      1      8     62     50     11      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 85.1     29.4   32.7
                                                                                                                                                       1300    124       0      3      2      1     12     57     46      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 87.1     28.2   32.2
                                                                                                                                                       1400    119       0      0      4      2      7     55     42      9      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 83.2     29.0   32.9
                                                                                                                                                       1500    189       0      0      7      1     19    103     58      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 87.8     28.0   31.8
                                                                                                                                                       1600    171       0      1      3      2      9     92     59      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 90.1     28.8   32.0
                                                                                                                                                       1700    187       0      0      3      1      4     90     78     10      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 90.9     29.8   32.4
                                                                                                                                                       1800    145       0      0      4      5      7     66     53      9      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 82.8     29.0   32.7
                                                                                                                                                       1900    101       0      0      5      1      7     65     22      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 88.1     27.7   32.0
                                                                                                                                                       2000     72       0      0      0      0      8     30     27      5      1      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 80.6     30.3   34.0
                                                                                                                                                       2100     37       0      0      0      1      4     16     13      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 81.1     29.1   33.1
                                                                                                                                                       2200     27       0      0      0      1      2     14      8      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 85.2     29.6   33.6
                                                                                                                                                       2300     16       0      0      0      0      1      3      7      4      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 68.8     32.8   38.3
                                                                                                                                                      07-19   1682       0      4     31     18    124    852    575     73      5      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 86.3     28.9   32.2
                                                                                                                                                      06-22   1924       0      4     38     21    145    975    650     84      6      1      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 85.8     28.9   32.2
                                                                                                                                                      06-00   1967       0      4     38     22    148    992    665     90      6      2      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 85.5     28.9   32.4
                                                                                                                                                      00-00   1994       0      4     38     22    155    997    676     93      7      2      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 85.2     28.9   32.4

                                                                                                                                                      Peak step 15:00 (189) AM Peak step 8:00 (173) PM Peak step 15:00 (189)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-3093 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-3095 Page 1

* Thursday, July 29, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                   0
                   5
                          5
                         10
                                10
                                15
                                       15
                                       20
                                              20
                                              25
                                                     25
                                                     30
                                                            30
                                                            35
                                                                   35
                                                                   40
                                                                          40
                                                                          45
                                                                                 45
                                                                                 50
                                                                                        50
                                                                                        55
                                                                                               55
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                             65
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                          10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Report
 0000      5       0      0      0      0      1      0      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.7 80.0     32.4      -
 0100      3       0      0      0      0      0      0      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 100.0    33.7      -
 0200      2       0      0      0      0      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 100.0    32.9      -
 0300      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.2 100.0    29.3      -      Datasets:
 0400      4       0      0      0      0      0      3      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 75.0     30.7      -      Site:                    [3N] NB MIRAMONTE AVE N/O COVINGTON RD
 0500      5       0      0      0      0      1      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 100.0    27.6      -
 0600     29       0      1      2      2      3     11      7      1      1      1      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 72.4     27.0   31.3      Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0700     77       0      0      0      1      6     38     23      9      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 84.4     29.5   32.4
 0800    184       0      0      2      2     22    111     46      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 90.8     28.0   31.3      Profile:
 0900    172       0      0      3      0     16     95     51      5      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 86.6     28.7   31.5
 1000    132       0      0      2      2     14     73     35      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 87.9     28.5   32.2      Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1100    175       0      0      0      3     23     93     51      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 89.1     28.4   31.3      Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1200    138       0      1      3      1      3     69     55      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 91.3     29.3   32.4
 1300    149       0      2      2      1     17     74     46      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 83.2     28.5   32.4      Direction:               North (bound)
 1400     90       0      0      1      0     11     43     29      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 84.4     29.0   33.6      Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1500    199       0      1      1      2     24    104     64      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 89.9     28.3   31.3
 1600    165       0      0      6      2      6     73     66      9      1      2      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 84.8     29.5   33.1
                                                                                                                                                      Name:                    Default Profile
 1700    202       0      1      4      2     11     85     88     11      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 87.1     29.4   33.1      Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 1800    166       0      1      1      2     11     81     62      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 88.0     29.2   32.4      Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
 1900    112       0      0      0      2     11     66     28      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 89.3     28.7   31.3
 2000     67       0      0      1      0      3     30     26      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 86.6     30.0   32.9
 2100     59       0      0      2      1      4     24     22      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 79.7     29.4   32.9      Column Legend:
 2200     17       0      0      0      0      1      7      8      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 94.1     30.8   33.6      0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
 2300     15       0      0      0      0      1      6      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 86.7     29.7   32.9
07-19   1849       0      6     25     18    164    939    616     75      4      2      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 86.1     28.8   32.2      1 [Total]                Number in time step
06-22   2116       0      7     30     23    185   1070    699     93      6      3      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 85.7     28.8   32.2      2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
06-00   2148       0      7     30     23    187   1083    714     95      6      3      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 85.7     28.8   32.2
00-00   2168       0      7     30     23    189   1090    723     97      6      3      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 85.5     28.9   32.2
                                                                                                                                                      3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                                                                                                                                                      4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
Peak step 17:00 (202) AM Peak step 8:00 (184) PM Peak step 17:00 (202)                                                                                5 [Mean]                 Average speed
* Grand Total
                                                                                                                                                      6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
   --    4162      0     11     68     45    344   2087   1399    190     13      5      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 85.3     28.9   32.2      * Wednesday, July 28, 2010
                                                                                                                                                       Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
In profile:       Vehicles = 4162 / 10664 (39.03%)                                                                                                                       0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                         5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
                                                                                                                                                       0000     13       0      0      0      0      0      3     10      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 100.0    31.7   33.8
                                                                                                                                                       0100      6       0      0      0      0      0      1      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 100.0    31.3      -
                                                                                                                                                       0200      4       0      0      0      0      1      0      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 28.9 75.0     31.6      -
                                                                                                                                                       0300      3       0      0      0      0      0      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 100.0    28.1      -
                                                                                                                                                       0400     10       0      0      0      1      3      2      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 60.0     27.9      -
                                                                                                                                                       0500     24       0      0      1      1      1     12      9      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 91.7     28.3   32.4
                                                                                                                                                       0600     70       0      0      2      1      6     33     28      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 91.4     28.6   31.8
                                                                                                                                                       0700    205       0      0      0      2      8    102     84      8      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 92.2     29.6   32.4
                                                                                                                                                       0800    424       0      1      1      6     26    200    164     24      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 87.0     29.5   32.9
                                                                                                                                                       0900    366       0      0      2      8     33    184    131      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 88.5     28.7   31.8
                                                                                                                                                       1000    315       0      0      0      2     10    153    130     19      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 89.8     29.8   33.1
                                                                                                                                                       1100    286       0      0      6      1     13    119    125     20      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 86.7     29.8   33.3
                                                                                                                                                       1200    324       0      0      6     11     25    128    130     24      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 81.2     29.2   33.1
                                                                                                                                                       1300    284       0      2      1      2     15    142    107     12      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 89.1     29.4   32.9
                                                                                                                                                       1400    292       0      1      4      8     19    128    121     10      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 86.3     29.0   32.4
                                                                                                                                                       1500    318       1      2      6      4     24    151    116     14      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 84.9     28.9   32.4
                                                                                                                                                       1600    288       0      2      2      2     13    135    118     16      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 88.5     29.5   33.1
                                                                                                                                                       1700    299       0      1      3      7     17    130    127     13      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 87.3     29.4   32.9
                                                                                                                                                       1800    280       0      0      4     11     19    110    123     12      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 83.6     29.3   32.9
                                                                                                                                                       1900    181       0      0      4     10      8     68     77     12      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 80.7     29.4   33.6
                                                                                                                                                       2000    164       0      1      1      5     14     80     57      5      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 85.4     28.6   32.4
                                                                                                                                                       2100     88       0      0      0      0      6     55     24      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 89.8     28.9   32.2
                                                                                                                                                       2200     65       0      0      1      3      5     31     20      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 84.6     28.7   31.3
                                                                                                                                                       2300     29       0      0      0      1      3     11     12      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 82.8     29.5   33.8
                                                                                                                                                      07-19   3681       1      9     35     64    222   1682   1476    180     12      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 86.4     29.3   32.9
                                                                                                                                                      06-22   4184       1     10     42     80    256   1918   1662    200     14      1      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 86.0     29.3   32.9
                                                                                                                                                      06-00   4278       1     10     43     84    264   1960   1694    207     14      1      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 85.9     29.3   32.9
                                                                                                                                                      00-00   4338       1     10     44     86    269   1981   1723    209     14      1      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 85.9     29.3   32.9

                                                                                                                                                      Peak step 8:00 (424) AM Peak step 8:00 (424) PM Peak step 12:00 (324)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-3095 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-3096 Page 1

* Thursday, July 29, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                   0
                   5
                          5
                         10
                                10
                                15
                                       15
                                       20
                                              20
                                              25
                                                     25
                                                     30
                                                            30
                                                            35
                                                                   35
                                                                   40
                                                                          40
                                                                          45
                                                                                 45
                                                                                 50
                                                                                        50
                                                                                        55
                                                                                               55
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                             65
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                          10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Report
 0000     19       0      0      0      0      2      7      8      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 84.2     30.0   33.8
 0100      7       0      0      0      0      0      3      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 100.0    30.4      -
 0200      3       0      0      0      0      1      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.5 100.0    27.1      -
 0300      2       0      0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.0 100.0    29.4      -      Datasets:
 0400      6       0      0      0      0      2      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 100.0    25.3      -      Site:                    [3S] SB MIRAMONTE AVE N/O COVINGTON RD
 0500     21       0      0      0      0      2      9     10      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 95.2     29.5   32.0
 0600     84       0      0      2      1     11     40     26      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 85.7     28.5   31.8      Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0700    227       0      0      1      2     10    114     84     16      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 89.0     29.5   32.4
 0800    401       0      0      2      6     26    186    165     16      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 87.8     29.4   32.7      Profile:
 0900    407       0      0      4      6     20    165    192     20      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 88.7     29.8   32.9
 1000    303       0      0      1      8     13    141    116     23      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 87.5     29.8   33.1      Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1100    281       0      0      1      1     12    135    123      9      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 92.5     29.7   32.7      Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1200    294       0      2      4      4     11    133    122     18      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 87.8     29.6   33.1
 1300    306       0      1      1      2     18    152    121     11      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 90.2     29.4   32.4      Direction:               South (bound)
 1400    281       0      1      4      4     19    128    115      7      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 87.2     29.4   32.9      Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1500    305       0      0      5      6     17    158    100     16      2      0      1      0      0      0      0 24.6 86.2     29.1   32.7
 1600    301       0      1      7      7     17    110    137     21      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 83.4     29.6   33.3
                                                                                                                                                      Name:                    Default Profile
 1700    329       0      5      5      9     18    150    126     16      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 83.9     28.8   32.9      Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 1800    283       0      2      6      8     17    127    113      9      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 85.2     28.8   32.2      Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
 1900    194       0      1      3      7     10     92     72      9      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 86.1     28.8   32.4
 2000    165       0      0      3      5     20     90     40      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 83.0     28.0   31.8
 2100     81       0      0      0      2      2     40     32      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 90.1     29.7   32.9      Column Legend:
 2200     54       0      0      0      2      2     26     21      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 87.0     29.3   33.1      0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
 2300     35       0      0      0      0      0     14     15      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 88.6     31.5   35.3
07-19   3718       0     12     41     63    198   1699   1514    182      8      0      1      0      0      0      0 25.1 86.6     29.4   32.9      1 [Total]                Number in time step
06-22   4242       0     13     49     78    241   1961   1684    205     10      0      1      0      0      0      0 24.6 86.1     29.3   32.7      2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
06-00   4331       0     13     49     80    243   2001   1720    212     12      0      1      0      0      0      0 24.6 86.1     29.3   32.9
00-00   4389       0     13     49     80    250   2026   1744    214     12      0      1      0      0      0      0 24.6 86.1     29.3   32.9
                                                                                                                                                      3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                                                                                                                                                      4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
Peak step 9:00 (407) AM Peak step 9:00 (407) PM Peak step 17:00 (329)                                                                                 5 [Mean]                 Average speed
* Grand Total
                                                                                                                                                      6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
   --    8727      1     23     93    166    519   4007   3467    423     26      1      1      0      0      0      0 24.6 86.0     29.3   32.9      * Wednesday, July 28, 2010
                                                                                                                                                       Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
In profile:       Vehicles = 8727 / 21671 (40.27%)                                                                                                                       0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                         5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
                                                                                                                                                       0000     17       0      0      0      0      2      5      7      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 76.5     31.3   34.7
                                                                                                                                                       0100      8       0      0      0      0      0      3      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 100.0    30.8      -
                                                                                                                                                       0200      6       0      0      0      0      0      3      2      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 83.3     31.7      -
                                                                                                                                                       0300      4       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.7 100.0    34.9      -
                                                                                                                                                       0400      7       0      0      0      1      1      1      2      1      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 57.1     31.5      -
                                                                                                                                                       0500     15       0      0      0      1      2      5      4      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.4 73.3     29.3   35.6
                                                                                                                                                       0600     39       0      0      0      0      2     14     13      7      2      1      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 71.8     32.0   38.0
                                                                                                                                                       0700    114       0      0      0      0     16     52     33     13      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 76.3     29.4   34.0
                                                                                                                                                       0800    222       0      1      1      5     24    115     63     12      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 83.3     28.5   31.8
                                                                                                                                                       0900    237       0      0      1      4     27    124     73      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 84.4     28.6   32.2
                                                                                                                                                       1000    247       0      0      0     10     34    120     71     10      1      1      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 81.8     28.5   32.2
                                                                                                                                                       1100    270       0      0      0      9     36    131     74     19      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 78.5     28.6   32.4
                                                                                                                                                       1200    300       0      0      3      9     50    134     86     15      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 79.7     28.3   32.4
                                                                                                                                                       1300    294       0      2      4     15     38    133     92     10      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 79.6     27.9   32.2
                                                                                                                                                       1400    291       0      0      3      8     45    139     84     12      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 79.4     28.1   32.7
                                                                                                                                                       1500    360       4      5      7     29     74    141     92      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 72.5     26.4   31.3
                                                                                                                                                       1600    385       1      2      4     12     85    192     75     14      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 79.7     27.3   31.3
                                                                                                                                                       1700    451      11     25     28     58    105    157     59      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.5 59.9     23.3   29.8
                                                                                                                                                       1800    411       1      2      5     19     74    193    103     14      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 77.6     27.3   31.5
                                                                                                                                                       1900    293       0      1      1      6     46    142     81     16      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 80.9     28.4   32.2
                                                                                                                                                       2000    206       0      0      4      4     28     81     76     12      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 78.2     29.0   33.3
                                                                                                                                                       2100    160       0      0      0      2     24     82     47      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 83.1     28.5   32.4
                                                                                                                                                       2200     99       0      0      1      4      9     42     35      6      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 80.8     29.2   32.7
                                                                                                                                                       2300     47       0      0      1      1      3     16     20      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.2 78.7     30.4   34.4
                                                                                                                                                      07-19   3582      17     37     56    178    608   1631    905    141      8      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 75.2     27.3   31.8
                                                                                                                                                      06-22   4280      17     38     61    190    708   1950   1122    181     11      2      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 75.8     27.5   32.0
                                                                                                                                                      06-00   4426      17     38     63    195    720   2008   1177    191     15      2      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 75.8     27.6   32.2
                                                                                                                                                      00-00   4483      17     38     63    197    725   2026   1197    201     16      3      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 75.6     27.7   32.2

                                                                                                                                                      Peak step 17:00 (451) AM Peak step 11:00 (270) PM Peak step 17:00 (451)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-3096 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-3097 Page 1

* Thursday, July 29, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                   0
                   5
                          5
                         10
                                10
                                15
                                       15
                                       20
                                              20
                                              25
                                                     25
                                                     30
                                                            30
                                                            35
                                                                   35
                                                                   40
                                                                          40
                                                                          45
                                                                                 45
                                                                                 50
                                                                                        50
                                                                                        55
                                                                                               55
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                             65
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                          10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Report
 0000     17       0      0      0      0      2      8      4      2      0      0      1      0      0      0      0 22.4 82.4     30.5   32.2
 0100     13       0      0      0      0      2      4      3      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.5 76.9     31.0   35.6
 0200      7       0      0      0      0      1      3      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 100.0    28.6      -
 0300      5       0      0      0      0      0      3      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 100.0    29.8      -      Datasets:
 0400      7       0      0      0      0      1      3      2      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 71.4     30.5      -      Site:                    [4N] NB MIRAMONTE AVE S/O COVINGTON RD
 0500     14       0      0      0      1      1      3      5      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.2 85.7     30.6   35.3
 0600     36       0      0      0      0      2     16     10      6      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 75.0     31.2   36.2      Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0700    112       0      0      1      5     13     45     42      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 79.5     28.8   32.4
 0800    219       0      0      3      4     25    110     67      9      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 84.0     28.5   32.2      Profile:
 0900    247       0      0      1      9     42    120     66      7      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 81.4     28.0   31.5
 1000    261       0      0      0      4     43    118     80     15      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 80.8     28.6   32.7      Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1100    258       0      0      0     11     41    115     72     18      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 77.1     28.5   32.4      Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1200    307       0      2      4     25     63    124     79      9      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 73.3     27.1   32.0
 1300    275       0      0      3     10     43    130     70     19      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 78.2     28.3   32.7      Direction:               North (bound)
 1400    318       0      1      5      7     54    144     96      9      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 78.9     28.0   32.0      Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1500    325       0      0      0     16     64    144     82     17      1      0      0      0      0      0      1 23.0 75.7     27.9   32.2
 1600    424       0     11     17     29     99    168     88      9      2      1      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 69.1     25.9   31.1
                                                                                                                                                      Name:                    Default Profile
 1700    474       9     19     21     69    113    162     68     10      2      0      0      0      1      0      0 20.8 59.7     24.0   30.4      Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 1800    427       9     60     16     34     75    133     84     14      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 54.3     23.3   31.3      Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
 1900    328       1      8      3     11     57    146     88     12      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 78.0     27.5   32.0
 2000    221       0      1      0      4     35    116     59      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 84.2     28.1   31.5
 2100    154       0      0      0      7     23     71     44      9      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 78.6     28.4   32.9      Column Legend:
 2200    106       0      0      0      2     14     52     34      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 84.9     28.8   32.7      0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
 2300     47       0      0      1      2      3     25     14      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 85.1     28.8   32.9
07-19   3647      18     93     71    223    675   1513    894    141     16      1      0      0      1      0      1 22.6 70.2     26.8   32.0      1 [Total]                Number in time step
06-22   4386      19    102     74    245    792   1862   1095    174     20      1      0      0      1      0      1 23.3 71.6     27.0   32.0      2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
06-00   4539      19    102     75    249    809   1939   1143    179     21      1      0      0      1      0      1 23.3 71.8     27.0   32.0
00-00   4602      19    102     75    250    816   1963   1162    189     22      1      1      0      1      0      1 23.3 71.8     27.1   32.0
                                                                                                                                                      3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                                                                                                                                                      4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
Peak step 17:00 (474) AM Peak step 10:00 (261) PM Peak step 17:00 (474)                                                                               5 [Mean]                 Average speed
* Grand Total
                                                                                                                                                      6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
   --    9085     36    140    138    447   1541   3989   2359    390     38      4      1      0      1      0      1 23.3 73.7     27.4   32.2      * Wednesday, July 28, 2010
                                                                                                                                                       Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
In profile:       Vehicles = 9085 / 21671 (41.92%)                                                                                                                       0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                         5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
                                                                                                                                                       0000     11       0      0      0      0      0      3      4      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.1 72.7     33.2   38.0
                                                                                                                                                       0100      3       0      0      0      0      0      0      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 100.0    35.0      -
                                                                                                                                                       0200      3       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.6 100.0    35.0      -
                                                                                                                                                       0300      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0400      5       0      0      0      0      0      1      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 29.1 80.0     33.6      -
                                                                                                                                                       0500     19       0      0      0      2      2      9      2      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 68.4     29.1   36.5
                                                                                                                                                       0600     57       0      0      0      2      2     15     28      9      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.1 82.5     31.3   35.1
                                                                                                                                                       0700    163       0      0      0      0      8     66     60     25      3      1      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 80.4     31.0   35.3
                                                                                                                                                       0800    359       0      0      1      8     26    165    137     20      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 85.0     29.4   32.9
                                                                                                                                                       0900    307       0      1      2      4     34    145    109     12      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 83.7     28.9   32.4
                                                                                                                                                       1000    276       0      0      1      5     31    125     93     17      4      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 81.5     29.3   33.1
                                                                                                                                                       1100    248       0      0      5     11     55     86     83      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 70.6     27.5   32.2
                                                                                                                                                       1200    284       0      1      9     13     18    100    124     19      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 80.3     29.0   33.3
                                                                                                                                                       1300    240       0      0      0      4     15     88    106     26      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.1 83.3     30.5   34.2
                                                                                                                                                       1400    244       0      1      2      2     13     74    108     42      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.4 77.9     31.3   35.6
                                                                                                                                                       1500    268       0      0      1      3     18     84    122     29     11      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 78.7     30.8   34.9
                                                                                                                                                       1600    254       0      1      0      3      6     82    125     36      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.6 86.6     31.1   34.7
                                                                                                                                                       1700    266       0      0      0      3      7     96    119     35      5      0      0      0      0      1      0 25.7 82.7     31.3   34.9
                                                                                                                                                       1800    229       0      0      0      5      5     55    127     34      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.5 82.5     31.5   34.9
                                                                                                                                                       1900    163       0      0      1     10      3     57     66     25      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 81.0     30.2   35.1
                                                                                                                                                       2000    138       0      1      1      3      7     41     66     18      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.2 79.0     30.5   34.9
                                                                                                                                                       2100     62       0      0      0      1      4     21     30      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 82.3     30.4   34.4
                                                                                                                                                       2200     49       0      0      0      1      2     16     22      5      2      1      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 81.6     31.5   34.9
                                                                                                                                                       2300     28       0      0      0      0      0      8     12      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 75.0     32.4   37.8
                                                                                                                                                      07-19   3138       0      4     21     61    236   1166   1313    302     33      1      0      0      0      1      0 25.3 79.5     30.0   34.0
                                                                                                                                                      06-22   3558       0      5     23     77    252   1300   1503    360     36      1      0      0      0      1      0 25.3 79.3     30.1   34.2
                                                                                                                                                      06-00   3635       0      5     23     78    254   1324   1537    372     39      2      0      0      0      1      0 25.3 79.3     30.1   34.2
                                                                                                                                                      00-00   3676       0      5     23     80    256   1337   1548    384     40      2      0      0      0      1      0 25.3 79.1     30.2   34.2

                                                                                                                                                      Peak step 8:00 (359) AM Peak step 8:00 (359) PM Peak step 12:00 (284)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-3097 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-3098 Page 1

* Thursday, July 29, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                   0
                   5
                          5
                         10
                                10
                                15
                                       15
                                       20
                                              20
                                              25
                                                     25
                                                     30
                                                            30
                                                            35
                                                                   35
                                                                   40
                                                                          40
                                                                          45
                                                                                 45
                                                                                 50
                                                                                        50
                                                                                        55
                                                                                               55
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                             65
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                          10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Report
 0000     13       0      0      0      0      0      3      6      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 29.1 84.6     33.3   36.5
 0100      8       0      0      0      0      0      1      5      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.7 87.5     33.9      -
 0200      3       0      0      0      0      0      0      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 100.0    32.9      -
 0300      3       0      0      0      0      0      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 100.0    29.6      -      Datasets:
 0400      3       0      0      0      0      1      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 66.7     29.6      -      Site:                    [4S] SB MIRAMONTE AVE S/O COVINGTON RD
 0500     22       0      0      0      0      0      7     11      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 86.4     32.1   35.6
 0600     60       0      0      0      0      4     16     33      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 86.7     30.7   33.3      Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0700    175       0      0      0      1     10     66     74     19      5      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 81.1     30.8   34.7
 0800    334       0      0      0      3     33    151    129     17      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 86.5     29.4   32.7      Profile:
 0900    335       0      0      2      3     26    155    125     22      1      1      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 85.1     29.6   33.6
 1000    262       0      0      2      8     23     87    117     23      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 81.3     30.0   34.0      Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1100    268       0      0      3      4     24    128    102      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 86.6     28.9   32.7      Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1200    231       0      0      2      4     18     95     91     20      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 81.4     29.9   34.0
 1300    263       0      0      2      2     14    131     96     17      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 87.8     29.5   32.9      Direction:               South (bound)
 1400    236       0      1      4      0      9     98     94     28      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 82.6     30.4   34.2      Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1500    278       0      0      4      8     19     91    130     23      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 80.6     30.1   34.0
 1600    276       0      2      2      3     12     93    136     27      0      0      0      1      0      0      0 25.1 83.3     30.6   34.2
                                                                                                                                                      Name:                    Default Profile
 1700    282       0      0      6      6      6     82    144     36      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.6 84.0     30.8   34.4      Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 1800    252       0      0      1      7     11     77    124     30      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.2 82.5     30.8   34.7      Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
 1900    172       0      0      3      5      7     69     74     11      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 83.7     29.7   33.3
 2000    131       0      0      5      4     17     48     54      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 79.4     28.4   32.9
 2100     70       0      0      1      0      3     25     34      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 85.7     30.1   33.3      Column Legend:
 2200     50       0      0      0      1      1     20     19      9      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 78.0     30.9   36.0      0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
 2300     25       0      0      0      0      1      4     13      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 80.0     32.2   35.6
07-19   3192       0      3     28     49    205   1254   1362    269     20      1      0      1      0      0      0 25.1 82.3     30.0   33.8      1 [Total]                Number in time step
06-22   3625       0      3     37     58    236   1412   1557    297     23      1      0      1      0      0      0 25.1 82.3     30.0   33.8      2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
06-00   3700       0      3     37     59    238   1436   1589    312     24      1      0      1      0      0      0 25.1 82.1     30.0   33.8
00-00   3752       0      3     37     59    239   1448   1618    321     25      1      0      1      0      0      0 25.1 82.1     30.0   33.8
                                                                                                                                                      3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                                                                                                                                                      4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
Peak step 9:00 (335) AM Peak step 9:00 (335) PM Peak step 17:00 (282)                                                                                 5 [Mean]                 Average speed
* Grand Total
                                                                                                                                                      6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
   --    7428      0      8     60    139    495   2785   3166    705     65      3      0      1      0      1      0 25.1 80.5     30.1   34.0      * Wednesday, July 28, 2010
                                                                                                                                                       Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
In profile:       Vehicles = 7428 / 18189 (40.84%)                                                                                                                       0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                         5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
                                                                                                                                                       0000     17       0      0      0      0      1      6      8      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 82.4     30.9   34.2
                                                                                                                                                       0100      7       0      0      0      0      0      2      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 100.0    30.6      -
                                                                                                                                                       0200      3       0      0      0      0      0      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 100.0    30.4      -
                                                                                                                                                       0300      2       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 14.1 50.0     30.4      -
                                                                                                                                                       0400      6       0      0      0      0      1      2      1      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 66.7     32.5      -
                                                                                                                                                       0500     14       0      0      0      2      4      2      3      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.2 50.0     27.8   36.2
                                                                                                                                                       0600     39       0      0      2      1      4     13     13      3      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 74.4     29.2   33.3
                                                                                                                                                       0700     95       0      0      1      2     19     44     28      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 80.0     27.9   32.0
                                                                                                                                                       0800    182       0      0      0      4     31    102     38      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.9 89.6     28.0   30.9
                                                                                                                                                       0900    197       0      2      2      1     43    107     39      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.9 84.8     27.2   30.9
                                                                                                                                                       1000    210       0      1      2      5     42    100     55      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 84.8     27.5   32.0
                                                                                                                                                       1100    242       0      2      4      6     55    131     42      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 84.7     26.6   30.2
                                                                                                                                                       1200    244       0      0      3      3     34    126     69      8      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 84.0     28.3   31.8
                                                                                                                                                       1300    252       0      1      2      2     53    137     49      6      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 84.1     27.5   31.5
                                                                                                                                                       1400    232       0      3      1      4     30    108     79      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 84.5     28.4   32.0
                                                                                                                                                       1500    300       0      2      0      4     34    181     69     10      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 87.3     28.3   31.8
                                                                                                                                                       1600    304       0      1      0      3     27    163     92     16      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 83.9     29.0   32.9
                                                                                                                                                       1700    397       0      1      3     10     33    213    120     15      1      0      0      0      0      1      0 24.2 86.1     28.7   32.0
                                                                                                                                                       1800    326       0      0      2      5     29    170    110      9      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 89.0     28.8   32.0
                                                                                                                                                       1900    239       0      1      4      2     13    103     99     17      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 85.8     29.4   33.1
                                                                                                                                                       2000    160       0      2      2      1      9     57     70     17      1      1      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 80.0     30.1   34.4
                                                                                                                                                       2100    112       0      0      1      0      8     52     38     13      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 84.8     29.7   33.3
                                                                                                                                                       2200     71       0      0      1      0      4     29     26      7      3      1      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 81.7     30.9   34.2
                                                                                                                                                       2300     30       0      0      1      0      1     13      9      5      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 26.2 83.3     30.7   35.6
                                                                                                                                                      07-19   2981       0     13     20     49    430   1582    790     87      9      0      0      0      0      1      0 23.3 83.6     28.1   31.8
                                                                                                                                                      06-22   3531       0     16     29     53    464   1807   1010    137     13      1      0      0      0      1      0 23.9 82.9     28.4   32.0
                                                                                                                                                      06-00   3632       0     16     31     53    469   1849   1045    149     16      3      0      0      0      1      0 23.9 82.7     28.5   32.2
                                                                                                                                                      00-00   3681       0     16     31     55    476   1862   1064    155     18      3      0      0      0      1      0 23.9 82.5     28.5   32.2

                                                                                                                                                      Peak step 17:00 (397) AM Peak step 11:00 (242) PM Peak step 17:00 (397)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-3098 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-3101 Page 1

* Thursday, July 29, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                   0
                   5
                          5
                         10
                                10
                                15
                                       15
                                       20
                                              20
                                              25
                                                     25
                                                     30
                                                            30
                                                            35
                                                                   35
                                                                   40
                                                                          40
                                                                          45
                                                                                 45
                                                                                 50
                                                                                        50
                                                                                        55
                                                                                               55
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                             65
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                          10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Report
 0000     19       0      0      0      0      0      4     11      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.3 89.5     32.5   35.1
 0100      9       0      0      0      0      0      2      5      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 29.1 88.9     33.7      -
 0200      6       0      0      0      0      0      3      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 100.0    29.1      -
 0300      3       0      0      0      0      0      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 100.0    29.8      -      Datasets:
 0400      3       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 29.8 100.0    36.3      -      Site:                    [5E] EB ALTAMEAD DR W/O MIRAMONTE SCHOOL DRIVEWAY
 0500     12       0      0      1      0      1      4      3      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 75.0     29.0   35.1
 0600     41       0      0      0      1      5     17     11      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 73.2     29.3   34.9      Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0700    100       0      0      1      2     12     55     27      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 86.0     28.2   31.8
 0800    174       0      1      0      1     29     96     36     10      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 86.2     28.2   31.5      Profile:
 0900    222       0      1      0      5     39    109     61      5      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 88.3     28.1   31.5
 1000    217       0      0      0      4     33    126     47      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 87.6     28.0   31.5      Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1100    242       0      0      3      2     38    119     65     14      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 83.1     28.4   32.2      Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1200    247       0      2      2      4     24    149     56     10      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 87.9     28.1   31.1
 1300    244       0      2      2      2     33    135     65      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 87.7     27.9   31.1      Direction:               East (bound)
 1400    284       0      3      4      4     44    154     66      6      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 85.6     27.7   31.1      Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1500    284       0      1      3      3     45    149     76      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 85.9     28.1   31.8
 1600    345       0      4      3      1     25    196    103     10      1      0      0      1      0      1      0 23.5 89.0     28.7   32.0
                                                                                                                                                      Name:                    Default Profile
 1700    407       0      0      3      6     33    217    123     22      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 85.5     29.2   32.7      Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 1800    363       0      1      6      3     42    189    108     14      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 85.7     28.6   32.2      Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
 1900    247       0      0      2      2     19    121     89     12      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 87.9     29.3   32.7
 2000    171       0      1      4      3     32     72     51      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 77.8     27.9   31.8
 2100    104       0      0      0      2      5     60     35      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 91.3     29.2   31.8      Column Legend:
 2200     73       0      0      0      1      4     35     30      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 91.8     29.3   32.4      0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
 2300     32       0      0      0      0      4     10     14      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 84.4     30.5   33.6
07-19   3129       0     15     27     37    397   1694    833    112     12      0      0      1      0      1      0 23.5 86.0     28.3   31.8      1 [Total]                Number in time step
06-22   3692       0     16     33     45    458   1964   1019    140     15      0      0      1      0      1      0 23.7 85.4     28.4   32.0      2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
06-00   3797       0     16     33     46    466   2009   1063    147     15      0      0      1      0      1      0 23.7 85.3     28.5   32.0
00-00   3849       0     16     34     46    467   2024   1087    157     16      0      0      1      0      1      0 23.7 85.1     28.5   32.0
                                                                                                                                                      3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                                                                                                                                                      4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
Peak step 17:00 (407) AM Peak step 11:00 (242) PM Peak step 17:00 (407)                                                                               5 [Mean]                 Average speed
* Grand Total
                                                                                                                                                      6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
   --    7530      0     32     65    101    943   3886   2151    312     34      3      0      1      0      2      0 23.9 83.8     28.5   32.2      * Wednesday, July 28, 2010
                                                                                                                                                       Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
In profile:       Vehicles = 7530 / 18189 (41.40%)                                                                                                                       0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                         5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
                                                                                                                                                       0000      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0300      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0400      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0500      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.1 100.0    26.1      -
                                                                                                                                                       0600      1       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.0 100.0    24.9      -
                                                                                                                                                       0700      6       0      0      3      2      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   9.4 83.3    17.2      -
                                                                                                                                                       0800     12       0      0      0      4      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.9 100.0    21.2   23.5
                                                                                                                                                       0900      6       0      0      0      0      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.0 100.0    24.9      -
                                                                                                                                                       1000      6       0      0      1      1      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 13.9 66.7     21.3      -
                                                                                                                                                       1100      9       0      0      0      0      6      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.5 100.0    24.4      -
                                                                                                                                                       1200     11       0      0      1      2      5      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.4 72.7     22.7   25.3
                                                                                                                                                       1300      7       0      0      1      0      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.4 85.7     21.6      -
                                                                                                                                                       1400     14       0      1      1      4      6      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.2 78.6     19.5   23.7
                                                                                                                                                       1500      9       0      0      2      0      4      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.1 77.8     21.7      -
                                                                                                                                                       1600      8       0      0      2      0      2      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.7 75.0     21.9      -
                                                                                                                                                       1700     11       0      0      1      1      3      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.3 81.8     23.8   27.3
                                                                                                                                                       1800      9       0      0      1      1      3      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.6 77.8     23.2      -
                                                                                                                                                       1900     14       0      0      2      3      8      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.0 78.6     22.3   24.6
                                                                                                                                                       2000      9       0      0      0      4      1      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.4 66.7     22.7      -
                                                                                                                                                       2100      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.8 100.0    26.7      -
                                                                                                                                                       2200      4       0      0      0      1      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.8 100.0    23.8      -
                                                                                                                                                       2300      1       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 11.4 100.0    21.3      -
                                                                                                                                                      07-19    108       0      1     13     15     48     28      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.5 73.1     21.9   26.8
                                                                                                                                                      06-22    133       0      1     15     22     58     33      3      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.7 72.2     22.1   27.1
                                                                                                                                                      06-00    138       0      1     15     23     61     34      3      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.7 73.2     22.1   26.8
                                                                                                                                                      00-00    139       0      1     15     23     61     35      3      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.7 73.4     22.2   26.8

                                                                                                                                                      Peak step 14:00 (14) AM Peak step 8:00 (12) PM Peak step 14:00 (14)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-3101 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-3100 Page 1

* Thursday, July 29, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                   0
                   5
                          5
                         10
                                10
                                15
                                       15
                                       20
                                              20
                                              25
                                                     25
                                                     30
                                                            30
                                                            35
                                                                   35
                                                                   40
                                                                          40
                                                                          45
                                                                                 45
                                                                                 50
                                                                                        50
                                                                                        55
                                                                                               55
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                             65
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                          10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Report
 0000      1       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 12.8 100.0    22.8      -
 0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0300      1       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 14.3 100.0    24.3      -      Datasets:
 0400      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -      Site:                    [5W] WB ALTAMEAD DR W/O MIRAMONTE SCHOOL DRIVEWAY
 0500      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.2 100.0    25.2      -
 0600      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -      Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0700      5       0      0      0      0      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.1 100.0    23.4      -
 0800     10       0      0      0      1      6      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.4 100.0    23.4      -      Profile:
 0900     11       0      0      2      3      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 11.4 72.7     20.1   23.0
 1000      6       0      0      0      1      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.7 100.0    22.7      -      Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1100      6       0      0      0      2      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 13.4 66.7     22.6      -      Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1200     12       0      0      0      1      5      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.8 100.0    24.3   25.5
 1300      6       0      0      0      0      3      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 100.0    25.3      -      Direction:               West (bound)
 1400      5       0      0      0      0      3      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.1 100.0    25.4      -      Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1500     12       0      0      0      2      8      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 14.5 83.3     22.6   24.4
 1600     15       0      0      2      2      4      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.2 66.7     22.7   28.6
                                                                                                                                                      Name:                    Default Profile
 1700      9       0      0      1      1      5      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.4 88.9     21.7      -      Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 1800     11       0      1      1      0      4      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.1 81.8     22.8   26.2      Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
 1900      8       0      0      2      1      3      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 12.8 62.5     20.0      -
 2000      7       0      0      1      3      2      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 14.1 85.7     20.6      -
 2100      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.8 100.0    26.8      -      Column Legend:
 2200      6       0      0      0      1      2      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 11.6 50.0     25.0      -      0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
 2300      1       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.0 100.0    24.8      -
07-19    108       0      1      6     13     52     33      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.1 80.6     22.9   26.6      1 [Total]                Number in time step
06-22    124       0      1      9     17     57     36      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.4 75.8     22.6   26.6      2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
06-00    131       0      1      9     18     60     37      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.7 74.8     22.7   26.8
00-00    134       0      1      9     18     62     38      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.7 75.4     22.8   26.8
                                                                                                                                                      3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                                                                                                                                                      4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
Peak step 16:00 (15) AM Peak step 9:00 (11) PM Peak step 16:00 (15)                                                                                   5 [Mean]                 Average speed
* Grand Total
                                                                                                                                                      6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
   --    273       0      2     24     41    123     73      9      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.7 74.4     22.5   26.8      * Wednesday, July 28, 2010
                                                                                                                                                       Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
In profile:       Vehicles = 273 / 714 (38.24%)                                                                                                                          0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                         5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
                                                                                                                                                       0000      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0300      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.4 100.0    30.4      -
                                                                                                                                                       0400      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0500      1       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 11.2 100.0    21.1      -
                                                                                                                                                       0600      5       0      0      0      2      1      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 10.3 60.0     22.3      -
                                                                                                                                                       0700      5       0      0      1      1      1      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.9 60.0     23.2      -
                                                                                                                                                       0800     10       0      0      1      1      5      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.2 90.0     22.4      -
                                                                                                                                                       0900      9       0      0      0      0      7      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.1 100.0    23.9      -
                                                                                                                                                       1000     12       0      0      0      1      6      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 100.0    24.0   27.3
                                                                                                                                                       1100      7       0      0      0      1      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 14.1 85.7     23.0      -
                                                                                                                                                       1200     16       0      2      1      0      7      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.0 75.0     21.9   28.0
                                                                                                                                                       1300      6       0      0      0      0      1      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 100.0    27.1      -
                                                                                                                                                       1400     10       0      0      0      0      9      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.2 100.0    23.1      -
                                                                                                                                                       1500      7       0      0      2      1      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 14.5 85.7     20.0      -
                                                                                                                                                       1600      7       0      0      0      1      1      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.1 85.7     25.6      -
                                                                                                                                                       1700     15       0      0      3      1      4      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.8 73.3     22.1   26.4
                                                                                                                                                       1800     18       0      1      2      2      6      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.2 72.2     22.2   26.6
                                                                                                                                                       1900     11       0      0      1      1      6      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.6 90.9     22.9   27.1
                                                                                                                                                       2000      4       0      0      0      0      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.3 100.0    23.6      -
                                                                                                                                                       2100      2       0      0      0      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.5 100.0    27.9      -
                                                                                                                                                       2200      2       0      0      0      0      1      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 12.5 50.0     28.8      -
                                                                                                                                                       2300      1       0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   8.7 100.0   18.7      -
                                                                                                                                                      07-19    122       0      3     10      9     56     39      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.0 80.3     22.9   27.1
                                                                                                                                                      06-22    144       0      3     11     12     66     46      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.0 79.2     23.0   27.3
                                                                                                                                                      06-00    147       0      3     11     13     67     46      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.0 78.2     23.0   27.3
                                                                                                                                                      00-00    149       0      3     11     13     68     46      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.0 77.9     23.1   27.7

                                                                                                                                                      Peak step 18:00 (18) AM Peak step 10:00 (12) PM Peak step 18:00 (18)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-3100 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-3103 Page 1

* Thursday, July 29, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                   0
                   5
                          5
                         10
                                10
                                15
                                       15
                                       20
                                              20
                                              25
                                                     25
                                                     30
                                                            30
                                                            35
                                                                   35
                                                                   40
                                                                          40
                                                                          45
                                                                                 45
                                                                                 50
                                                                                        50
                                                                                        55
                                                                                               55
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                             65
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                          10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Report
 0000      3       0      0      0      0      2      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 100.0    27.0      -
 0100      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.1 100.0    28.0      -
 0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0300      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.0 100.0    31.0      -      Datasets:
 0400      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -      Site:                    [6N] NB CARMEL TERRACE
 0500      1       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 11.4 100.0    21.3      -
 0600      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -      Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0700      8       0      0      0      1      2      2      2      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 75.0     28.3      -
 0800      6       0      0      1      1      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.9 83.3     21.4      -      Profile:
 0900      7       0      0      1      3      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 13.6 100.0    19.1      -
 1000     12       0      0      0      0      7      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.1 91.7     25.0   26.6      Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1100      6       0      0      0      0      3      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.8 100.0    25.3      -      Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1200      8       0      0      0      0      4      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.5 100.0    25.1      -
 1300     10       0      0      0      1      2      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.8 90.0     25.7      -      Direction:               North (bound)
 1400      6       0      0      0      1      3      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.9 100.0    23.5      -      Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1500     11       0      0      0      2      5      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.2 100.0    24.0   26.6
 1600     15       0      0      0      3      7      3      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.1 80.0     24.0   27.7
                                                                                                                                                      Name:                    Default Profile
 1700     11       0      0      0      1      5      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.0 90.9     25.0   28.4      Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 1800     18       0      3      1      0      5      7      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.0 72.2     23.3   28.2      Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
 1900     10       0      1      0      3      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.6 80.0     20.0      -
 2000      7       0      0      0      0      5      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 85.7     26.2      -
 2100      3       0      0      1      1      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   9.2 66.7    21.2      -      Column Legend:
 2200      2       0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.0 100.0    25.5      -      0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
 2300      3       0      0      1      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 13.9 100.0    19.5      -
07-19    118       0      3      3     13     49     41      7      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.6 78.0     24.2   28.0      1 [Total]                Number in time step
06-22    138       0      4      4     17     58     44      9      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.6 75.4     24.0   28.0      2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
06-00    143       0      4      5     17     61     45      9      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.6 75.5     23.9   28.0
00-00    149       0      4      5     17     64     46     11      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.6 75.2     24.0   28.2
                                                                                                                                                      3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                                                                                                                                                      4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
Peak step 18:00 (18) AM Peak step 10:00 (12) PM Peak step 18:00 (18)                                                                                  5 [Mean]                 Average speed
* Grand Total
                                                                                                                                                      6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
   --    298       0      7     16     30    132     92     19      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.0 76.5     23.5   27.7      * Wednesday, July 28, 2010
                                                                                                                                                       Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
In profile:       Vehicles = 298 / 714 (41.74%)                                                                                                                          0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                         5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
                                                                                                                                                       0000      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0300      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0400      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0500      1       0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   9.6 100.0   19.6      -
                                                                                                                                                       0600      2       0      0      1      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 12.8 100.0    18.1      -
                                                                                                                                                       0700      5       0      1      0      1      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.6 80.0     20.3      -
                                                                                                                                                       0800     10       0      0      0      4      1      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.9 60.0     23.3      -
                                                                                                                                                       0900      6       0      0      0      0      1      2      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 100.0    28.4      -
                                                                                                                                                       1000      3       0      0      0      0      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 100.0    27.2      -
                                                                                                                                                       1100     11       0      0      0      3      2      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.7 81.8     25.0   27.5
                                                                                                                                                       1200     12       0      0      0      2      2      6      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 75.0     26.5   29.8
                                                                                                                                                       1300      7       0      0      0      1      1      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.6 100.0    25.6      -
                                                                                                                                                       1400     12       0      0      1      2      2      5      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 66.7     24.1   28.2
                                                                                                                                                       1500     11       0      1      1      3      3      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.0 72.7     20.4   26.4
                                                                                                                                                       1600      9       1      0      3      0      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 11.0 55.6     16.9      -
                                                                                                                                                       1700     14       0      0      0      1      5      3      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.9 71.4     26.9   31.8
                                                                                                                                                       1800     16       0      0      5      1      2      6      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 56.3     22.5   29.3
                                                                                                                                                       1900     13       0      0      1      1      5      4      1      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 19.2 76.9     26.2   29.1
                                                                                                                                                       2000      8       0      0      0      1      2      2      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.8 62.5     27.6      -
                                                                                                                                                       2100      2       0      0      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 14.5 100.0    23.7      -
                                                                                                                                                       2200      3       0      0      1      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 66.7     24.7      -
                                                                                                                                                       2300      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.7 100.0    25.6      -
                                                                                                                                                      07-19    116       1      2     10     18     25     43     16      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 61.2     23.8   29.8
                                                                                                                                                      06-22    141       1      2     12     20     35     49     18      3      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 61.7     24.2   30.0
                                                                                                                                                      06-00    145       1      2     13     20     35     51     19      3      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 61.4     24.2   30.0
                                                                                                                                                      00-00    146       1      2     13     21     35     51     19      3      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 61.0     24.1   30.0

                                                                                                                                                      Peak step 18:00 (16) AM Peak step 11:00 (11) PM Peak step 18:00 (16)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-3103 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-3098 Page 1

* Thursday, July 29, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                   0
                   5
                          5
                         10
                                10
                                15
                                       15
                                       20
                                              20
                                              25
                                                     25
                                                     30
                                                            30
                                                            35
                                                                   35
                                                                   40
                                                                          40
                                                                          45
                                                                                 45
                                                                                 50
                                                                                        50
                                                                                        55
                                                                                               55
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                             65
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                          10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Report
 0000      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.1 100.0    26.0      -
 0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0300      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.4 100.0    25.4      -      Datasets:
 0400      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -      Site:                    [4S] SB MIRAMONTE AVE S/O COVINGTON RD
 0500      1       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 11.9 100.0    21.7      -
 0600      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -      Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0700      4       0      0      0      1      0      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.4 75.0     24.2      -
 0800      9       0      0      1      0      3      2      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 66.7     25.7      -      Profile:
 0900     12       0      0      0      1      7      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 91.7     24.0   27.1
 1000      6       0      0      1      0      3      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.5 83.3     23.7      -      Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1100      5       1      0      0      0      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.5 80.0     22.2      -      Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1200     11       0      0      2      1      2      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.5 72.7     23.8   28.6
 1300      5       0      0      0      1      1      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 80.0     27.4      -      Direction:               South (bound)
 1400      7       0      1      0      1      1      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.1 57.1     22.5      -      Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1500     11       0      0      0      0      5      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 90.9     25.8   27.3
 1600     13       0      0      0      2      3      3      3      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.4 53.8     28.0   34.4
                                                                                                                                                      Name:                    Default Profile
 1700     12       0      0      2      0      1      6      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 83.3     26.1   30.9      Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 1800     10       0      1      1      2      2      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 50.0     21.9      -      Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
 1900      4       0      0      0      0      1      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 100.0    29.7      -
 2000      6       0      0      0      0      2      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.4 66.7     27.2      -
 2100      6       0      0      0      0      1      2      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.4 83.3     29.7      -      Column Legend:
 2200      4       0      0      0      0      1      2      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.3 75.0     27.5      -      0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
 2300      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.3 100.0    28.2      -
07-19    105       1      2      7      9     30     38     16      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.9 65.7     24.8   30.9      1 [Total]                Number in time step
06-22    121       1      2      7      9     34     43     22      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 65.3     25.3   31.8      2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
06-00    126       1      2      7      9     35     46     22      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 65.1     25.4   31.8
00-00    129       1      2      7      9     36     48     22      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 65.1     25.4   31.8
                                                                                                                                                      3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                                                                                                                                                      4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
Peak step 16:00 (13) AM Peak step 9:00 (12) PM Peak step 16:00 (13)                                                                                   5 [Mean]                 Average speed
* Grand Total
                                                                                                                                                      6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
   --    275       2      4     20     30     71     99     41      7      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 62.5     24.7   30.9      * Wednesday, July 28, 2010
                                                                                                                                                       Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
In profile:       Vehicles = 275 / 710 (38.73%)                                                                                                                          0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                         5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
                                                                                                                                                       0000     17       0      0      0      0      1      6      8      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 82.4     30.9   34.2
                                                                                                                                                       0100      7       0      0      0      0      0      2      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 100.0    30.6      -
                                                                                                                                                       0200      3       0      0      0      0      0      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 100.0    30.4      -
                                                                                                                                                       0300      2       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 14.1 50.0     30.4      -
                                                                                                                                                       0400      6       0      0      0      0      1      2      1      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 66.7     32.5      -
                                                                                                                                                       0500     14       0      0      0      2      4      2      3      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.2 50.0     27.8   36.2
                                                                                                                                                       0600     39       0      0      2      1      4     13     13      3      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 74.4     29.2   33.3
                                                                                                                                                       0700     95       0      0      1      2     19     44     28      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 80.0     27.9   32.0
                                                                                                                                                       0800    182       0      0      0      4     31    102     38      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.9 89.6     28.0   30.9
                                                                                                                                                       0900    197       0      2      2      1     43    107     39      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.9 84.8     27.2   30.9
                                                                                                                                                       1000    210       0      1      2      5     42    100     55      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 84.8     27.5   32.0
                                                                                                                                                       1100    242       0      2      4      6     55    131     42      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 84.7     26.6   30.2
                                                                                                                                                       1200    244       0      0      3      3     34    126     69      8      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 84.0     28.3   31.8
                                                                                                                                                       1300    252       0      1      2      2     53    137     49      6      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 84.1     27.5   31.5
                                                                                                                                                       1400    232       0      3      1      4     30    108     79      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 84.5     28.4   32.0
                                                                                                                                                       1500    300       0      2      0      4     34    181     69     10      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 87.3     28.3   31.8
                                                                                                                                                       1600    304       0      1      0      3     27    163     92     16      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 83.9     29.0   32.9
                                                                                                                                                       1700    397       0      1      3     10     33    213    120     15      1      0      0      0      0      1      0 24.2 86.1     28.7   32.0
                                                                                                                                                       1800    326       0      0      2      5     29    170    110      9      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 89.0     28.8   32.0
                                                                                                                                                       1900    239       0      1      4      2     13    103     99     17      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 85.8     29.4   33.1
                                                                                                                                                       2000    160       0      2      2      1      9     57     70     17      1      1      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 80.0     30.1   34.4
                                                                                                                                                       2100    112       0      0      1      0      8     52     38     13      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 84.8     29.7   33.3
                                                                                                                                                       2200     71       0      0      1      0      4     29     26      7      3      1      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 81.7     30.9   34.2
                                                                                                                                                       2300     30       0      0      1      0      1     13      9      5      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 26.2 83.3     30.7   35.6
                                                                                                                                                      07-19   2981       0     13     20     49    430   1582    790     87      9      0      0      0      0      1      0 23.3 83.6     28.1   31.8
                                                                                                                                                      06-22   3531       0     16     29     53    464   1807   1010    137     13      1      0      0      0      1      0 23.9 82.9     28.4   32.0
                                                                                                                                                      06-00   3632       0     16     31     53    469   1849   1045    149     16      3      0      0      0      1      0 23.9 82.7     28.5   32.2
                                                                                                                                                      00-00   3681       0     16     31     55    476   1862   1064    155     18      3      0      0      0      1      0 23.9 82.5     28.5   32.2

                                                                                                                                                      Peak step 17:00 (397) AM Peak step 11:00 (242) PM Peak step 17:00 (397)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-3098 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-3101 Page 1

* Thursday, July 29, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                   0
                   5
                          5
                         10
                                10
                                15
                                       15
                                       20
                                              20
                                              25
                                                     25
                                                     30
                                                            30
                                                            35
                                                                   35
                                                                   40
                                                                          40
                                                                          45
                                                                                 45
                                                                                 50
                                                                                        50
                                                                                        55
                                                                                               55
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                             65
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                          10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Report
 0000     19       0      0      0      0      0      4     11      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.3 89.5     32.5   35.1
 0100      9       0      0      0      0      0      2      5      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 29.1 88.9     33.7      -
 0200      6       0      0      0      0      0      3      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 100.0    29.1      -
 0300      3       0      0      0      0      0      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 100.0    29.8      -      Datasets:
 0400      3       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 29.8 100.0    36.3      -      Site:                    [5E] EB ALTAMEAD DR W/O MIRAMONTE SCHOOL DRIVEWAY
 0500     12       0      0      1      0      1      4      3      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.9 75.0     29.0   35.1
 0600     41       0      0      0      1      5     17     11      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 73.2     29.3   34.9      Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0700    100       0      0      1      2     12     55     27      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 86.0     28.2   31.8
 0800    174       0      1      0      1     29     96     36     10      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 86.2     28.2   31.5      Profile:
 0900    222       0      1      0      5     39    109     61      5      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 88.3     28.1   31.5
 1000    217       0      0      0      4     33    126     47      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 87.6     28.0   31.5      Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1100    242       0      0      3      2     38    119     65     14      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 83.1     28.4   32.2      Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1200    247       0      2      2      4     24    149     56     10      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 87.9     28.1   31.1
 1300    244       0      2      2      2     33    135     65      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 87.7     27.9   31.1      Direction:               East (bound)
 1400    284       0      3      4      4     44    154     66      6      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 85.6     27.7   31.1      Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1500    284       0      1      3      3     45    149     76      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 85.9     28.1   31.8
 1600    345       0      4      3      1     25    196    103     10      1      0      0      1      0      1      0 23.5 89.0     28.7   32.0
                                                                                                                                                      Name:                    Default Profile
 1700    407       0      0      3      6     33    217    123     22      3      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 85.5     29.2   32.7      Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 1800    363       0      1      6      3     42    189    108     14      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 85.7     28.6   32.2      Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
 1900    247       0      0      2      2     19    121     89     12      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 87.9     29.3   32.7
 2000    171       0      1      4      3     32     72     51      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 77.8     27.9   31.8
 2100    104       0      0      0      2      5     60     35      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 91.3     29.2   31.8      Column Legend:
 2200     73       0      0      0      1      4     35     30      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 91.8     29.3   32.4      0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
 2300     32       0      0      0      0      4     10     14      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 84.4     30.5   33.6
07-19   3129       0     15     27     37    397   1694    833    112     12      0      0      1      0      1      0 23.5 86.0     28.3   31.8      1 [Total]                Number in time step
06-22   3692       0     16     33     45    458   1964   1019    140     15      0      0      1      0      1      0 23.7 85.4     28.4   32.0      2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
06-00   3797       0     16     33     46    466   2009   1063    147     15      0      0      1      0      1      0 23.7 85.3     28.5   32.0
00-00   3849       0     16     34     46    467   2024   1087    157     16      0      0      1      0      1      0 23.7 85.1     28.5   32.0
                                                                                                                                                      3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                                                                                                                                                      4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
Peak step 17:00 (407) AM Peak step 11:00 (242) PM Peak step 17:00 (407)                                                                               5 [Mean]                 Average speed
* Grand Total
                                                                                                                                                      6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
   --    7530      0     32     65    101    943   3886   2151    312     34      3      0      1      0      2      0 23.9 83.8     28.5   32.2      * Wednesday, July 28, 2010
                                                                                                                                                       Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
In profile:       Vehicles = 7530 / 18189 (41.40%)                                                                                                                       0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                         5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
                                                                                                                                                       0000      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0300      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0400      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0500      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.1 100.0    26.1      -
                                                                                                                                                       0600      1       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.0 100.0    24.9      -
                                                                                                                                                       0700      6       0      0      3      2      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   9.4 83.3    17.2      -
                                                                                                                                                       0800     12       0      0      0      4      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.9 100.0    21.2   23.5
                                                                                                                                                       0900      6       0      0      0      0      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.0 100.0    24.9      -
                                                                                                                                                       1000      6       0      0      1      1      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 13.9 66.7     21.3      -
                                                                                                                                                       1100      9       0      0      0      0      6      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.5 100.0    24.4      -
                                                                                                                                                       1200     11       0      0      1      2      5      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.4 72.7     22.7   25.3
                                                                                                                                                       1300      7       0      0      1      0      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.4 85.7     21.6      -
                                                                                                                                                       1400     14       0      1      1      4      6      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.2 78.6     19.5   23.7
                                                                                                                                                       1500      9       0      0      2      0      4      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.1 77.8     21.7      -
                                                                                                                                                       1600      8       0      0      2      0      2      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.7 75.0     21.9      -
                                                                                                                                                       1700     11       0      0      1      1      3      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.3 81.8     23.8   27.3
                                                                                                                                                       1800      9       0      0      1      1      3      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.6 77.8     23.2      -
                                                                                                                                                       1900     14       0      0      2      3      8      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.0 78.6     22.3   24.6
                                                                                                                                                       2000      9       0      0      0      4      1      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.4 66.7     22.7      -
                                                                                                                                                       2100      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.8 100.0    26.7      -
                                                                                                                                                       2200      4       0      0      0      1      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.8 100.0    23.8      -
                                                                                                                                                       2300      1       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 11.4 100.0    21.3      -
                                                                                                                                                      07-19    108       0      1     13     15     48     28      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.5 73.1     21.9   26.8
                                                                                                                                                      06-22    133       0      1     15     22     58     33      3      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.7 72.2     22.1   27.1
                                                                                                                                                      06-00    138       0      1     15     23     61     34      3      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.7 73.2     22.1   26.8
                                                                                                                                                      00-00    139       0      1     15     23     61     35      3      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.7 73.4     22.2   26.8

                                                                                                                                                      Peak step 14:00 (14) AM Peak step 8:00 (12) PM Peak step 14:00 (14)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-3101 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-3100 Page 1

* Thursday, July 29, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                   0
                   5
                          5
                         10
                                10
                                15
                                       15
                                       20
                                              20
                                              25
                                                     25
                                                     30
                                                            30
                                                            35
                                                                   35
                                                                   40
                                                                          40
                                                                          45
                                                                                 45
                                                                                 50
                                                                                        50
                                                                                        55
                                                                                               55
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                             65
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                          10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Report
 0000      1       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 12.8 100.0    22.8      -
 0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0300      1       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 14.3 100.0    24.3      -      Datasets:
 0400      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -      Site:                    [5W] WB ALTAMEAD DR W/O MIRAMONTE SCHOOL DRIVEWAY
 0500      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.2 100.0    25.2      -
 0600      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -      Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0700      5       0      0      0      0      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.1 100.0    23.4      -
 0800     10       0      0      0      1      6      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.4 100.0    23.4      -      Profile:
 0900     11       0      0      2      3      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 11.4 72.7     20.1   23.0
 1000      6       0      0      0      1      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.7 100.0    22.7      -      Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1100      6       0      0      0      2      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 13.4 66.7     22.6      -      Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1200     12       0      0      0      1      5      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.8 100.0    24.3   25.5
 1300      6       0      0      0      0      3      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 100.0    25.3      -      Direction:               West (bound)
 1400      5       0      0      0      0      3      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.1 100.0    25.4      -      Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1500     12       0      0      0      2      8      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 14.5 83.3     22.6   24.4
 1600     15       0      0      2      2      4      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.2 66.7     22.7   28.6
                                                                                                                                                      Name:                    Default Profile
 1700      9       0      0      1      1      5      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.4 88.9     21.7      -      Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 1800     11       0      1      1      0      4      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.1 81.8     22.8   26.2      Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
 1900      8       0      0      2      1      3      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 12.8 62.5     20.0      -
 2000      7       0      0      1      3      2      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 14.1 85.7     20.6      -
 2100      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.8 100.0    26.8      -      Column Legend:
 2200      6       0      0      0      1      2      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 11.6 50.0     25.0      -      0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
 2300      1       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.0 100.0    24.8      -
07-19    108       0      1      6     13     52     33      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.1 80.6     22.9   26.6      1 [Total]                Number in time step
06-22    124       0      1      9     17     57     36      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.4 75.8     22.6   26.6      2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
06-00    131       0      1      9     18     60     37      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.7 74.8     22.7   26.8
00-00    134       0      1      9     18     62     38      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.7 75.4     22.8   26.8
                                                                                                                                                      3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                                                                                                                                                      4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
Peak step 16:00 (15) AM Peak step 9:00 (11) PM Peak step 16:00 (15)                                                                                   5 [Mean]                 Average speed
* Grand Total
                                                                                                                                                      6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
   --    273       0      2     24     41    123     73      9      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.7 74.4     22.5   26.8      * Wednesday, July 28, 2010
                                                                                                                                                       Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
In profile:       Vehicles = 273 / 714 (38.24%)                                                                                                                          0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                         5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
                                                                                                                                                       0000      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0300      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.4 100.0    30.4      -
                                                                                                                                                       0400      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0500      1       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 11.2 100.0    21.1      -
                                                                                                                                                       0600      5       0      0      0      2      1      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 10.3 60.0     22.3      -
                                                                                                                                                       0700      5       0      0      1      1      1      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.9 60.0     23.2      -
                                                                                                                                                       0800     10       0      0      1      1      5      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.2 90.0     22.4      -
                                                                                                                                                       0900      9       0      0      0      0      7      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.1 100.0    23.9      -
                                                                                                                                                       1000     12       0      0      0      1      6      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 100.0    24.0   27.3
                                                                                                                                                       1100      7       0      0      0      1      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 14.1 85.7     23.0      -
                                                                                                                                                       1200     16       0      2      1      0      7      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.0 75.0     21.9   28.0
                                                                                                                                                       1300      6       0      0      0      0      1      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 100.0    27.1      -
                                                                                                                                                       1400     10       0      0      0      0      9      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.2 100.0    23.1      -
                                                                                                                                                       1500      7       0      0      2      1      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 14.5 85.7     20.0      -
                                                                                                                                                       1600      7       0      0      0      1      1      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.1 85.7     25.6      -
                                                                                                                                                       1700     15       0      0      3      1      4      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.8 73.3     22.1   26.4
                                                                                                                                                       1800     18       0      1      2      2      6      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.2 72.2     22.2   26.6
                                                                                                                                                       1900     11       0      0      1      1      6      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.6 90.9     22.9   27.1
                                                                                                                                                       2000      4       0      0      0      0      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.3 100.0    23.6      -
                                                                                                                                                       2100      2       0      0      0      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.5 100.0    27.9      -
                                                                                                                                                       2200      2       0      0      0      0      1      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 12.5 50.0     28.8      -
                                                                                                                                                       2300      1       0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   8.7 100.0   18.7      -
                                                                                                                                                      07-19    122       0      3     10      9     56     39      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.0 80.3     22.9   27.1
                                                                                                                                                      06-22    144       0      3     11     12     66     46      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.0 79.2     23.0   27.3
                                                                                                                                                      06-00    147       0      3     11     13     67     46      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.0 78.2     23.0   27.3
                                                                                                                                                      00-00    149       0      3     11     13     68     46      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.0 77.9     23.1   27.7

                                                                                                                                                      Peak step 18:00 (18) AM Peak step 10:00 (12) PM Peak step 18:00 (18)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-3100 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-3103 Page 1

* Thursday, July 29, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                   0
                   5
                          5
                         10
                                10
                                15
                                       15
                                       20
                                              20
                                              25
                                                     25
                                                     30
                                                            30
                                                            35
                                                                   35
                                                                   40
                                                                          40
                                                                          45
                                                                                 45
                                                                                 50
                                                                                        50
                                                                                        55
                                                                                               55
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                             65
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                          10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Report
 0000      3       0      0      0      0      2      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 100.0    27.0      -
 0100      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.1 100.0    28.0      -
 0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0300      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.0 100.0    31.0      -      Datasets:
 0400      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -      Site:                    [6N] NB CARMEL TERRACE
 0500      1       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 11.4 100.0    21.3      -
 0600      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -      Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0700      8       0      0      0      1      2      2      2      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 75.0     28.3      -
 0800      6       0      0      1      1      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.9 83.3     21.4      -      Profile:
 0900      7       0      0      1      3      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 13.6 100.0    19.1      -
 1000     12       0      0      0      0      7      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.1 91.7     25.0   26.6      Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1100      6       0      0      0      0      3      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.8 100.0    25.3      -      Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1200      8       0      0      0      0      4      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.5 100.0    25.1      -
 1300     10       0      0      0      1      2      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.8 90.0     25.7      -      Direction:               North (bound)
 1400      6       0      0      0      1      3      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.9 100.0    23.5      -      Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1500     11       0      0      0      2      5      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.2 100.0    24.0   26.6
 1600     15       0      0      0      3      7      3      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.1 80.0     24.0   27.7
                                                                                                                                                      Name:                    Default Profile
 1700     11       0      0      0      1      5      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.0 90.9     25.0   28.4      Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 1800     18       0      3      1      0      5      7      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.0 72.2     23.3   28.2      Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
 1900     10       0      1      0      3      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.6 80.0     20.0      -
 2000      7       0      0      0      0      5      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 85.7     26.2      -
 2100      3       0      0      1      1      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   9.2 66.7    21.2      -      Column Legend:
 2200      2       0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.0 100.0    25.5      -      0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
 2300      3       0      0      1      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 13.9 100.0    19.5      -
07-19    118       0      3      3     13     49     41      7      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.6 78.0     24.2   28.0      1 [Total]                Number in time step
06-22    138       0      4      4     17     58     44      9      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.6 75.4     24.0   28.0      2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
06-00    143       0      4      5     17     61     45      9      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.6 75.5     23.9   28.0
00-00    149       0      4      5     17     64     46     11      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.6 75.2     24.0   28.2
                                                                                                                                                      3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                                                                                                                                                      4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
Peak step 18:00 (18) AM Peak step 10:00 (12) PM Peak step 18:00 (18)                                                                                  5 [Mean]                 Average speed
* Grand Total
                                                                                                                                                      6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
   --    298       0      7     16     30    132     92     19      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.0 76.5     23.5   27.7      * Wednesday, July 28, 2010
                                                                                                                                                       Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
In profile:       Vehicles = 298 / 714 (41.74%)                                                                                                                          0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                         5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
                                                                                                                                                       0000      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0300      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0400      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0500      1       0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   9.6 100.0   19.6      -
                                                                                                                                                       0600      2       0      0      1      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 12.8 100.0    18.1      -
                                                                                                                                                       0700      5       0      1      0      1      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.6 80.0     20.3      -
                                                                                                                                                       0800     10       0      0      0      4      1      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.9 60.0     23.3      -
                                                                                                                                                       0900      6       0      0      0      0      1      2      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 100.0    28.4      -
                                                                                                                                                       1000      3       0      0      0      0      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 100.0    27.2      -
                                                                                                                                                       1100     11       0      0      0      3      2      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.7 81.8     25.0   27.5
                                                                                                                                                       1200     12       0      0      0      2      2      6      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 75.0     26.5   29.8
                                                                                                                                                       1300      7       0      0      0      1      1      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.6 100.0    25.6      -
                                                                                                                                                       1400     12       0      0      1      2      2      5      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 66.7     24.1   28.2
                                                                                                                                                       1500     11       0      1      1      3      3      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.0 72.7     20.4   26.4
                                                                                                                                                       1600      9       1      0      3      0      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 11.0 55.6     16.9      -
                                                                                                                                                       1700     14       0      0      0      1      5      3      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.9 71.4     26.9   31.8
                                                                                                                                                       1800     16       0      0      5      1      2      6      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 56.3     22.5   29.3
                                                                                                                                                       1900     13       0      0      1      1      5      4      1      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 19.2 76.9     26.2   29.1
                                                                                                                                                       2000      8       0      0      0      1      2      2      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.8 62.5     27.6      -
                                                                                                                                                       2100      2       0      0      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 14.5 100.0    23.7      -
                                                                                                                                                       2200      3       0      0      1      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 66.7     24.7      -
                                                                                                                                                       2300      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.7 100.0    25.6      -
                                                                                                                                                      07-19    116       1      2     10     18     25     43     16      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 61.2     23.8   29.8
                                                                                                                                                      06-22    141       1      2     12     20     35     49     18      3      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 61.7     24.2   30.0
                                                                                                                                                      06-00    145       1      2     13     20     35     51     19      3      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 61.4     24.2   30.0
                                                                                                                                                      00-00    146       1      2     13     21     35     51     19      3      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 61.0     24.1   30.0

                                                                                                                                                      Peak step 18:00 (16) AM Peak step 11:00 (11) PM Peak step 18:00 (16)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-3103 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-3104 Page 1

* Thursday, July 29, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                   0
                   5
                          5
                         10
                                10
                                15
                                       15
                                       20
                                              20
                                              25
                                                     25
                                                     30
                                                            30
                                                            35
                                                                   35
                                                                   40
                                                                          40
                                                                          45
                                                                                 45
                                                                                 50
                                                                                        50
                                                                                        55
                                                                                               55
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                             65
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                          10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Report
 0000      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.1 100.0    26.0      -
 0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0300      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.4 100.0    25.4      -      Datasets:
 0400      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -      Site:                    [6S] SB CARMEL TERRACE
 0500      1       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 11.9 100.0    21.7      -
 0600      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -      Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0700      4       0      0      0      1      0      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.4 75.0     24.2      -
 0800      9       0      0      1      0      3      2      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 66.7     25.7      -      Profile:
 0900     12       0      0      0      1      7      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 91.7     24.0   27.1
 1000      6       0      0      1      0      3      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.5 83.3     23.7      -      Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1100      5       1      0      0      0      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.5 80.0     22.2      -      Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1200     11       0      0      2      1      2      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.5 72.7     23.8   28.6
 1300      5       0      0      0      1      1      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 80.0     27.4      -      Direction:               South (bound)
 1400      7       0      1      0      1      1      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.1 57.1     22.5      -      Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1500     11       0      0      0      0      5      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 90.9     25.8   27.3
 1600     13       0      0      0      2      3      3      3      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.4 53.8     28.0   34.4
                                                                                                                                                      Name:                    Default Profile
 1700     12       0      0      2      0      1      6      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 83.3     26.1   30.9      Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 1800     10       0      1      1      2      2      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 50.0     21.9      -      Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
 1900      4       0      0      0      0      1      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 100.0    29.7      -
 2000      6       0      0      0      0      2      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.4 66.7     27.2      -
 2100      6       0      0      0      0      1      2      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.4 83.3     29.7      -      Column Legend:
 2200      4       0      0      0      0      1      2      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.3 75.0     27.5      -      0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
 2300      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.3 100.0    28.2      -
07-19    105       1      2      7      9     30     38     16      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.9 65.7     24.8   30.9      1 [Total]                Number in time step
06-22    121       1      2      7      9     34     43     22      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 65.3     25.3   31.8      2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
06-00    126       1      2      7      9     35     46     22      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 65.1     25.4   31.8
00-00    129       1      2      7      9     36     48     22      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 65.1     25.4   31.8
                                                                                                                                                      3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                                                                                                                                                      4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
Peak step 16:00 (13) AM Peak step 9:00 (12) PM Peak step 16:00 (13)                                                                                   5 [Mean]                 Average speed
* Grand Total
                                                                                                                                                      6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
   --    275       2      4     20     30     71     99     41      7      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 62.5     24.7   30.9      * Wednesday, July 28, 2010
                                                                                                                                                       Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
In profile:       Vehicles = 275 / 710 (38.73%)                                                                                                                          0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                         5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
                                                                                                                                                       0000      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0300      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 100.0    33.7      -
                                                                                                                                                       0400      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0500      1       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 12.3 100.0    22.4      -
                                                                                                                                                       0600      3       0      0      0      0      1      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 66.7     28.6      -
                                                                                                                                                       0700      3       0      0      0      0      1      1      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.3 66.7     28.9      -
                                                                                                                                                       0800     10       0      0      2      1      1      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.0 70.0     23.4      -
                                                                                                                                                       0900      9       1      0      0      1      2      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.7 77.8     22.4      -
                                                                                                                                                       1000     13       0      0      0      2      5      3      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 84.6     24.9   30.0
                                                                                                                                                       1100      6       0      0      0      1      1      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 83.3     26.9      -
                                                                                                                                                       1200     13       0      1      0      3      1      5      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 61.5     24.8   30.2
                                                                                                                                                       1300      6       0      0      0      1      0      1      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.7 83.3     29.8      -
                                                                                                                                                       1400     12       0      1      0      1      5      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.0 75.0     23.4   27.7
                                                                                                                                                       1500     10       1      0      2      1      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.8 70.0     20.0      -
                                                                                                                                                       1600     10       0      0      1      1      2      3      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 60.0     25.3      -
                                                                                                                                                       1700     15       1      0      0      4      6      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.2 73.3     21.5   26.6
                                                                                                                                                       1800     16       0      1      1      1      1      7      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 75.0     25.8   33.1
                                                                                                                                                       1900      8       0      0      2      2      2      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 13.2 75.0     21.4      -
                                                                                                                                                       2000      7       0      0      1      2      2      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 14.1 71.4     22.9      -
                                                                                                                                                       2100      2       0      0      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 14.5 100.0    23.0      -
                                                                                                                                                       2200      1       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 14.3 100.0    24.3      -
                                                                                                                                                       2300      2       0      0      0      1      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.0 100.0    24.0      -
                                                                                                                                                      07-19    123       3      3      6     17     29     41     21      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 63.4     24.2   30.4
                                                                                                                                                      06-22    143       3      3      9     21     36     42     26      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 60.1     24.1   30.6
                                                                                                                                                      06-00    146       3      3      9     22     37     43     26      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 60.3     24.1   30.4
                                                                                                                                                      00-00    148       3      3      9     22     38     43     27      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 60.1     24.1   30.6

                                                                                                                                                      Peak step 18:00 (16) AM Peak step 10:00 (13) PM Peak step 18:00 (16)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-3104 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-3106 Page 1

* Thursday, July 29, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                   0
                   5
                          5
                         10
                                10
                                15
                                       15
                                       20
                                              20
                                              25
                                                     25
                                                     30
                                                            30
                                                            35
                                                                   35
                                                                   40
                                                                          40
                                                                          45
                                                                                 45
                                                                                 50
                                                                                        50
                                                                                        55
                                                                                               55
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                             65
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                          10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Report
 0000      2       0      0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 100.0    28.3      -
 0100      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.1 100.0    30.0      -
 0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0300      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 100.0    33.4      -      Datasets:
 0400      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -      Site:                    [7E] EB PORTLAND AVE E/O MIRAMONTE AVE
 0500      1       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 13.0 100.0    22.9      -
 0600      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -      Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0700      8       0      0      0      1      1      4      1      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.7 75.0     28.4      -
 0800      6       0      0      0      1      3      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.9 100.0    23.8      -      Profile:
 0900      6       0      0      1      2      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 12.1 83.3     19.6      -
 1000     11       0      0      0      1      5      3      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.8 81.8     25.9   28.6      Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1100      8       0      2      0      0      2      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 75.0     22.9      -      Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1200      5       0      0      1      0      3      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 13.2 80.0     21.9      -
 1300     11       0      0      1      1      0      5      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 72.7     26.9   31.1      Direction:               East (bound)
 1400      9       0      2      1      0      4      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 66.7     20.0      -      Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1500     11       0      0      1      1      1      4      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 72.7     26.1   30.9
 1600     13       0      0      0      2      0      8      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 76.9     27.6   30.0
                                                                                                                                                      Name:                    Default Profile
 1700     12       0      1      1      0      2      5      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.3 66.7     25.0   30.9      Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 1800     16       0      0      0      2      1      9      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 81.3     27.2   30.6      Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
 1900      7       0      0      0      4      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.7 100.0    22.2      -
 2000      6       0      0      0      1      0      3      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 83.3     26.3      -
 2100      5       0      0      0      0      2      2      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 80.0     27.6      -      Column Legend:
 2200      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.1 100.0    28.2      -      0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
 2300      1       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 13.4 100.0    23.4      -
07-19    116       0      5      6     11     24     44     22      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.3 68.1     25.2   30.6      1 [Total]                Number in time step
06-22    134       0      5      6     16     27     51     24      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.3 66.4     25.2   30.6      2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
06-00    136       0      5      6     16     28     52     24      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.3 66.9     25.2   30.6
00-00    141       0      5      6     16     29     54     26      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.3 67.4     25.3   30.6
                                                                                                                                                      3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                                                                                                                                                      4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
Peak step 18:00 (16) AM Peak step 10:00 (11) PM Peak step 18:00 (16)                                                                                  5 [Mean]                 Average speed
* Grand Total
                                                                                                                                                      6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
   --    289       3      8     15     38     67     97     53      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.0 63.3     24.7   30.6      * Wednesday, July 28, 2010
                                                                                                                                                       Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
In profile:       Vehicles = 289 / 710 (40.70%)                                                                                                                          0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                         5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
                                                                                                                                                       0000     10       0      0      0      0      1      4      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 90.0     29.7      -
                                                                                                                                                       0100      5       0      0      0      0      0      3      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 100.0    28.9      -
                                                                                                                                                       0200      2       0      0      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 13.6 100.0    22.1      -
                                                                                                                                                       0300      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 100.0    31.6      -
                                                                                                                                                       0400      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0500      4       0      0      0      0      0      3      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.1 75.0     29.1      -
                                                                                                                                                       0600     10       0      0      0      2      0      4      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 80.0     27.2      -
                                                                                                                                                       0700     25       0      0      0      2      5     14      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 84.0     26.7   29.1
                                                                                                                                                       0800     63       0      1      1      0     14     30     16      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 82.5     27.5   31.5
                                                                                                                                                       0900     51       0      0      0      2      9     24     15      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 88.2     28.1   32.4
                                                                                                                                                       1000     66       0      0      0      0     11     31     20      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 81.8     28.9   32.4
                                                                                                                                                       1100     78       0      0      0      3      9     34     27      4      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 79.5     29.3   33.6
                                                                                                                                                       1200     93       0      0      0      2      7     50     29      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 86.0     29.1   33.1
                                                                                                                                                       1300     82       0      0      1      2     12     37     21      8      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 75.6     29.0   33.8
                                                                                                                                                       1400     76       0      0      0      2      5     37     27      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 85.5     29.4   33.1
                                                                                                                                                       1500     83       0      0      0      0      6     50     23      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 89.2     29.0   32.0
                                                                                                                                                       1600     95       0      0      0      2      5     53     27      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 84.2     29.2   33.1
                                                                                                                                                       1700    114       0      0      1      1      8     57     40      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 86.8     29.2   32.9
                                                                                                                                                       1800     97       0      0      0      3     10     51     29      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 86.6     28.7   31.8
                                                                                                                                                       1900     95       0      0      0      3     14     51     26      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 88.4     28.0   31.3
                                                                                                                                                       2000     53       0      0      0      1     12     22     14      3      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 75.5     28.6   33.1
                                                                                                                                                       2100     31       0      0      0      0      8     19      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 93.5     27.2   29.3
                                                                                                                                                       2200     26       0      0      0      2      4      9     10      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 76.9     28.0   32.0
                                                                                                                                                       2300     17       0      0      0      0      2      6      8      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 88.2     29.8   33.3
                                                                                                                                                      07-19    923       0      1      3     19    101    468    278     48      4      1      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 82.7     28.8   32.9
                                                                                                                                                      06-22   1112       0      1      3     25    135    564    326     52      4      2      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 82.7     28.7   32.7
                                                                                                                                                      06-00   1155       0      1      3     27    141    579    344     54      4      2      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 82.6     28.7   32.7
                                                                                                                                                      00-00   1177       0      1      3     27    144    589    352     55      4      2      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 82.6     28.7   32.7

                                                                                                                                                      Peak step 17:00 (114) AM Peak step 11:00 (78) PM Peak step 17:00 (114)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-3106 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-3105 Page 1

* Thursday, July 29, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                   0
                   5
                          5
                         10
                                10
                                15
                                       15
                                       20
                                              20
                                              25
                                                     25
                                                     30
                                                            30
                                                            35
                                                                   35
                                                                   40
                                                                          40
                                                                          45
                                                                                 45
                                                                                 50
                                                                                        50
                                                                                        55
                                                                                               55
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                             65
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                          10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Report
 0000      9       0      0      0      0      1      2      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.3 77.8     31.0      -
 0100      3       0      0      0      0      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.2 100.0    26.5      -
 0200      4       0      0      0      0      0      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 100.0    28.2      -
 0300      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.6 100.0    26.6      -      Datasets:
 0400      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -      Site:                    [7W] WB PORTLAND AVE E/O MIRAMONTE AVE
 0500      6       0      0      0      0      0      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 100.0    28.8      -
 0600     14       0      0      0      1      3      7      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 85.7     26.9   31.3      Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0700     16       0      0      0      2      3      8      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.9 75.0     26.6   31.3
 0800     57       0      0      0      1      8     29     16      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 84.2     28.5   31.5      Profile:
 0900     68       0      0      0      0     12     28     25      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 82.4     29.3   33.3
 1000     72       0      0      0      1      8     35     24      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 83.3     29.0   32.0      Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1100     80       0      0      0      0     10     47     22      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 91.3     28.4   31.3      Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1200     70       0      0      0      1      4     37     25      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 90.0     29.4   32.9
 1300     86       0      0      0      5      5     46     26      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 84.9     28.7   32.0      Direction:               West (bound)
 1400     73       0      0      0      0     10     37     22      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 82.2     28.6   32.4      Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1500    101       0      0      0      3     13     51     29      3      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 83.2     28.6   31.8
 1600    101       1      0      0      1      6     54     35      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 90.1     29.1   32.4
                                                                                                                                                      Name:                    Default Profile
 1700    109       0      0      0      2      7     58     35      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 86.2     29.2   32.9      Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 1800     99       0      0      0      0      8     46     40      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 88.9     29.6   32.4      Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
 1900     72       0      0      0      1     13     36     19      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 87.5     28.0   31.5
 2000     79       0      0      0      1     13     43     19      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 83.5     28.0   31.8
 2100     52       0      0      0      1      4     30     16      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 92.3     28.4   30.6      Column Legend:
 2200     28       0      0      0      2      8     11      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.5 82.1     26.6   30.2      0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
 2300     16       0      0      0      1      1     11      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 87.5     27.8   31.1
07-19    932       1      0      0     16     94    476    301     38      6      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 85.0     28.9   32.4      1 [Total]                Number in time step
06-22   1149       1      0      0     20    127    592    357     45      7      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 84.5     28.8   32.2      2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
06-00   1193       1      0      0     23    136    614    366     46      7      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 84.2     28.7   32.2
00-00   1216       1      0      0     23    138    626    373     48      7      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 84.2     28.7   32.2
                                                                                                                                                      3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                                                                                                                                                      4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
Peak step 17:00 (109) AM Peak step 11:00 (80) PM Peak step 17:00 (109)                                                                                5 [Mean]                 Average speed
* Grand Total
                                                                                                                                                      6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
   --    2393      1      1      3     50    282   1215    725    103     11      2      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 83.2     28.7   32.4      * Wednesday, July 28, 2010
                                                                                                                                                       Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
In profile:       Vehicles = 2393 / 5876 (40.72%)                                                                                                                        0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                         5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
                                                                                                                                                       0000      5       0      0      0      0      0      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 100.0    28.6      -
                                                                                                                                                       0100      2       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 100.0    33.0      -
                                                                                                                                                       0200      3       0      0      0      0      1      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 100.0    27.9      -
                                                                                                                                                       0300      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.7 100.0    27.7      -
                                                                                                                                                       0400      2       0      0      0      1      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.2 100.0    22.1      -
                                                                                                                                                       0500      9       0      0      0      0      1      2      4      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 66.7     32.7      -
                                                                                                                                                       0600     21       0      0      0      0      3      6     10      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 81.0     30.1   33.8
                                                                                                                                                       0700     70       0      0      2      3     14     25     21      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 74.3     28.1   32.9
                                                                                                                                                       0800     87       0      0      0      1     13     46     22      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 86.2     28.6   31.5
                                                                                                                                                       0900     91       0      0      0      2     13     52     22      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 86.8     27.8   31.1
                                                                                                                                                       1000     86       0      0      1      0     13     38     28      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 81.4     29.1   32.7
                                                                                                                                                       1100     79       0      0      1      5     10     37     20      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 82.3     27.9   31.3
                                                                                                                                                       1200     91       0      0      0      2     15     37     32      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 82.4     28.6   32.0
                                                                                                                                                       1300     67       0      0      0      0      5     35     22      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 85.1     29.7   33.6
                                                                                                                                                       1400     73       0      0      0      0      4     34     29      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 87.7     30.1   33.3
                                                                                                                                                       1500     76       0      0      1      1      8     36     25      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 80.3     28.9   32.7
                                                                                                                                                       1600     85       0      0      0      1     10     35     35      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.8 83.5     29.1   32.4
                                                                                                                                                       1700     90       0      0      2      0      7     47     30      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 85.6     28.8   32.0
                                                                                                                                                       1800     89       0      0      1      3     13     35     32      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 80.9     28.6   32.2
                                                                                                                                                       1900     58       0      0      0      1      5     23     28      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 87.9     29.3   31.8
                                                                                                                                                       2000     50       0      1      0      0      7     23     16      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 80.0     28.1   32.0
                                                                                                                                                       2100     29       0      0      0      1      5     17      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.9 86.2     27.5   31.1
                                                                                                                                                       2200     15       0      0      0      1      3      7      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 73.3     27.1   32.0
                                                                                                                                                       2300     11       0      0      0      2      1      4      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.1 72.7     28.2   31.5
                                                                                                                                                      07-19    984       0      0      8     18    125    457    318     52      6      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 80.2     28.7   32.4
                                                                                                                                                      06-22   1142       0      1      8     20    145    526    376     60      6      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 80.3     28.7   32.4
                                                                                                                                                      06-00   1168       0      1      8     23    149    537    382     62      6      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 80.0     28.7   32.4
                                                                                                                                                      00-00   1190       0      1      8     24    151    547    388     64      7      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 79.7     28.7   32.4

                                                                                                                                                      Peak step 9:00 (91) AM Peak step 9:00 (91) PM Peak step 12:00 (91)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-3105 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-3107 Page 1

* Thursday, July 29, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                   0
                   5
                          5
                         10
                                10
                                15
                                       15
                                       20
                                              20
                                              25
                                                     25
                                                     30
                                                            30
                                                            35
                                                                   35
                                                                   40
                                                                          40
                                                                          45
                                                                                 45
                                                                                 50
                                                                                        50
                                                                                        55
                                                                                               55
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                             65
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                          10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Report
 0000     11       0      0      0      0      1      2      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 90.9     30.4   32.0
 0100      2       0      0      0      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.5 100.0    27.8      -
 0200      2       0      0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 100.0    29.3      -
 0300      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -      Datasets:
 0400      2       0      0      0      0      1      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 12.5 50.0     27.6      -      Site:                    [8N] NB EASTWOOD DR
 0500      3       0      0      0      0      1      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 66.7     31.7      -
 0600     14       0      0      0      1      2      3      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 78.6     29.0   33.1      Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0700     62       0      0      0      1      7     27     21      4      1      1      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 82.3     29.7   34.2
 0800     87       0      0      1      0     13     43     24      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 85.1     28.6   32.2      Profile:
 0900     81       0      0      1      0     17     37     23      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 87.7     28.2   32.0
 1000     85       0      0      0      3      9     48     23      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 84.7     28.5   31.8      Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1100     69       0      0      0      0     12     28     25      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 84.1     28.8   32.0      Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1200     60       0      0      0      0      9     27     18      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 81.7     29.4   33.1
 1300     89       0      0      0      1      7     42     34      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 87.6     29.4   33.3      Direction:               North (bound)
 1400     68       0      0      0      0     10     32     20      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 85.3     29.0   32.4      Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1500     89       0      0      0      3     11     40     27      6      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 77.5     29.2   34.0
 1600     85       0      0      0      0      9     39     27      9      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 26.2 81.2     29.7   33.8
                                                                                                                                                      Name:                    Default Profile
 1700     99       0      0      0      0      9     45     42      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.6 89.9     29.4   32.7      Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 1800    109       0      0      1      2     11     50     37      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 82.6     29.0   32.2      Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
 1900     56       0      0      0      0      7     27     20      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 85.7     28.9   32.9
 2000     41       0      0      0      1      7     21     10      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 82.9     28.1   33.6
 2100     36       0      0      0      1     10     13     11      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.1 75.0     27.3   32.2      Column Legend:
 2200     20       0      0      0      0      2      8      9      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 90.0     29.4   33.6      0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
 2300     12       0      0      0      0      3      7      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 100.0    26.8   28.0
07-19    983       0      0      3     10    124    458    321     60      6      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 81.3     29.1   32.9      1 [Total]                Number in time step
06-22   1130       0      0      3     13    150    522    369     66      6      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 80.9     29.0   32.9      2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
06-00   1162       0      0      3     13    155    537    380     67      6      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 81.1     29.0   32.9
00-00   1182       0      0      3     13    158    542    390     69      6      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 81.0     29.0   32.9
                                                                                                                                                      3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                                                                                                                                                      4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
Peak step 18:00 (109) AM Peak step 8:00 (87) PM Peak step 18:00 (109)                                                                                 5 [Mean]                 Average speed
* Grand Total
                                                                                                                                                      6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
   --    2372      0      1     11     37    309   1089    778    133     13      1      0      0      0      0      0 23.9 80.4     28.9   32.7      * Wednesday, July 28, 2010
                                                                                                                                                       Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
In profile:       Vehicles = 2372 / 5876 (40.37%)                                                                                                                        0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                         5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
                                                                                                                                                       0000      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0300      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0400      1       0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   7.2 100.0   17.1      -
                                                                                                                                                       0500      4       0      0      0      2      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.7 100.0    22.1      -
                                                                                                                                                       0600      3       0      0      0      0      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 14.3 100.0    23.6      -
                                                                                                                                                       0700      3       0      0      0      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 13.6 100.0    20.1      -
                                                                                                                                                       0800     10       0      0      1      0      6      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.4 90.0     22.7      -
                                                                                                                                                       0900     10       0      0      0      4      4      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.1 90.0     22.7      -
                                                                                                                                                       1000     20       0      0      1      2      6      8      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.6 75.0     25.5   28.4
                                                                                                                                                       1100     17       0      1      0      0      5     10      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.0 88.2     25.5   28.6
                                                                                                                                                       1200     16       0      0      1      2      6      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.3 87.5     23.8   27.7
                                                                                                                                                       1300     11       0      0      1      2      2      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 81.8     23.8   27.5
                                                                                                                                                       1400     13       0      0      0      1      2      7      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.4 84.6     26.9   30.0
                                                                                                                                                       1500      8       0      0      0      1      4      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.4 87.5     23.3      -
                                                                                                                                                       1600     13       0      0      1      0      6      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.3 92.3     24.5   28.6
                                                                                                                                                       1700     17       0      0      0      1      5      6      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 82.4     27.4   31.8
                                                                                                                                                       1800      9       0      0      0      1      2      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.1 88.9     25.4      -
                                                                                                                                                       1900      6       0      0      1      0      2      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.1 83.3     23.0      -
                                                                                                                                                       2000      8       0      0      0      0      3      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 100.0    25.9      -
                                                                                                                                                       2100      6       0      0      1      0      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.5 83.3     22.2      -
                                                                                                                                                       2200      3       0      0      0      0      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 100.0    25.0      -
                                                                                                                                                       2300      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.8 100.0    26.6      -
                                                                                                                                                      07-19    147       0      1      5     16     49     59     15      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 76.2     24.8   28.9
                                                                                                                                                      06-22    170       0      1      7     16     61     67     16      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 78.2     24.7   28.6
                                                                                                                                                      06-00    174       0      1      7     16     62     70     16      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 78.2     24.7   28.6
                                                                                                                                                      00-00    179       0      1      7     19     63     71     16      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 77.1     24.6   28.6

                                                                                                                                                      Peak step 10:00 (20) AM Peak step 10:00 (20) PM Peak step 17:00 (17)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-3107 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-3108 Page 1

* Thursday, July 29, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                   0
                   5
                          5
                         10
                                10
                                15
                                       15
                                       20
                                              20
                                              25
                                                     25
                                                     30
                                                            30
                                                            35
                                                                   35
                                                                   40
                                                                          40
                                                                          45
                                                                                 45
                                                                                 50
                                                                                        50
                                                                                        55
                                                                                               55
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                             65
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                          10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Report
 0000      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0300      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -      Datasets:
 0400      1       0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   7.8 100.0   17.9      -      Site:                    [8S] SB EASTWOOD DR
 0500      4       0      0      0      1      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.1 100.0    23.6      -
 0600      4       0      0      0      1      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.2 100.0    23.3      -      Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0700      4       0      0      0      0      1      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 100.0    26.6      -
 0800      9       0      0      0      0      3      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 88.9     27.0      -      Profile:
 0900      8       1      0      0      2      1      3      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.4 75.0     23.1      -
 1000     16       0      0      0      0      5      7      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 100.0    27.1   31.5      Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1100     14       0      0      0      1      7      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.0 92.9     24.4   27.3      Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1200     13       0      0      0      0      5      6      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 84.6     26.4   29.8
 1300     12       0      1      1      1      3      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 66.7     22.9   27.3      Direction:               South (bound)
 1400      8       0      0      0      1      3      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 75.0     25.9      -      Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1500     11       0      0      0      0      1      8      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.0 100.0    26.6   27.1
 1600     17       0      0      1      1      5      8      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.3 76.5     24.9   28.0
                                                                                                                                                      Name:                    Default Profile
 1700      9       0      1      0      2      2      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 66.7     22.7      -      Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 1800     16       0      0      0      0      9      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.5 100.0    24.9   27.3      Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
 1900     12       0      0      1      0      6      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.1 91.7     24.2   26.4
 2000      6       0      0      0      1      1      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 83.3     25.5      -
 2100      7       0      1      0      1      1      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.8 71.4     23.2      -      Column Legend:
 2200      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.3 100.0    28.3      -      0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
07-19    137       1      2      2      8     45     59     19      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 81.0     25.2   29.8
06-22    166       1      3      3     11     55     70     22      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.0 80.7     25.0   29.3      1 [Total]                Number in time step
06-00    167       1      3      3     11     55     71     22      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.0 80.8     25.0   29.3      2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
00-00    172       1      3      3     13     57     72     22      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.0 80.2     25.0   29.1      3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
Peak step 16:00 (17) AM Peak step 10:00 (16) PM Peak step 16:00 (17)                                                                                  4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
                                                                                                                                                      5 [Mean]                 Average speed
* Grand Total                                                                                                                                         6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
   --    351       1      4     10     32    120    143     38      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 78.3     24.8   28.9
                                                                                                                                                      * Wednesday, July 28, 2010
In profile:       Vehicles = 351 / 784 (44.77%)                                                                                                        Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                                                                                                                                                                         0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                         5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
                                                                                                                                                       0000      1       0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   8.9 100.0   18.9      -
                                                                                                                                                       0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0300      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0400      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0500      3       0      0      0      1      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.8 100.0    23.9      -
                                                                                                                                                       0600      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                       0700      5       0      0      0      1      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 14.5 80.0     21.6      -
                                                                                                                                                       0800     12       0      0      0      3      5      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.4 100.0    23.2   25.3
                                                                                                                                                       0900     14       0      0      1      3      8      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.2 85.7     21.6   24.6
                                                                                                                                                       1000      9       0      0      2      2      0      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.7 55.6     22.4      -
                                                                                                                                                       1100     10       0      1      1      1      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.2 80.0     20.8      -
                                                                                                                                                       1200      7       0      1      2      0      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.6 57.1     18.0      -
                                                                                                                                                       1300      6       0      0      1      2      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 13.0 66.7     19.3      -
                                                                                                                                                       1400      5       0      0      0      1      1      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.3 100.0    25.0      -
                                                                                                                                                       1500     15       0      0      0      0      7      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.5 93.3     25.6   29.1
                                                                                                                                                       1600     13       0      1      1      1      8      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 13.9 76.9     21.3   23.7
                                                                                                                                                       1700      8       0      0      0      1      3      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.9 87.5     24.3      -
                                                                                                                                                       1800     19       0      0      2      0      9      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.6 84.2     23.7   28.0
                                                                                                                                                       1900      8       0      0      0      0      0      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.1 100.0    27.3      -
                                                                                                                                                       2000      5       0      0      0      0      3      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.6 100.0    25.1      -
                                                                                                                                                       2100      3       0      0      0      1      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.2 100.0    24.5      -
                                                                                                                                                       2200      3       0      0      0      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 14.5 100.0    21.2      -
                                                                                                                                                       2300      2       0      0      0      1      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.7 100.0    22.5      -
                                                                                                                                                      07-19    123       0      3     10     15     54     36      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.5 74.8     22.5   27.3
                                                                                                                                                      06-22    139       0      3     10     16     57     47      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.6 75.5     23.0   27.5
                                                                                                                                                      06-00    144       0      3     10     18     59     48      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.6 75.7     22.9   27.5
                                                                                                                                                      00-00    148       0      3     10     20     59     50      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.6 76.4     22.9   27.5

                                                                                                                                                      Peak step 18:00 (19) AM Peak step 9:00 (14) PM Peak step 18:00 (19)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-3108 Page 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Traffic Data Service
* Thursday, July 29, 2010                                                                                                                                                                                                  Campbell, CA
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85                                                                          (408) 377-2988
 0000      0
                   5
                   0
                         10
                          0
                                15
                                 0
                                       20
                                        0
                                              25
                                               0
                                                     30
                                                      0
                                                            35
                                                             0
                                                                   40
                                                                    0
                                                                          45
                                                                           0
                                                                                 50
                                                                                  0
                                                                                        55
                                                                                         0
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                     0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          tdsbay@cs.com                      File Name    : 11AM
 0100
 0200
           0
           0
                   0
                   0
                          0
                          0
                                 0
                                 0
                                        0
                                        0
                                               0
                                               0
                                                      0
                                                      0
                                                             0
                                                             0
                                                                    0
                                                                    0
                                                                           0
                                                                           0
                                                                                  0
                                                                                  0
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Site Code    : 00000011
 0300
 0400
           0
           0
                   0
                   0
                          0
                          0
                                 0
                                 0
                                        0
                                        0
                                               0
                                               0
                                                      0
                                                      0
                                                             0
                                                             0
                                                                    0
                                                                    0
                                                                           0
                                                                           0
                                                                                  0
                                                                                  0
                                                                                         0
                                                                                         0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Start Date   : 10/19/2010
 0500      2       0      0      0      1      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   7.6 50.0    22.7      -                                                                                                             Page No      :1
 0600      3       0      0      0      0      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.9 100.0    23.1      -
 0700      4       0      0      0      0      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.8 100.0    23.7      -
 0800      9       0      0      0      1      6      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.1 100.0    23.4      -
 0900     10       1      1      1      1      3      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.6 60.0     18.8      -
 1000      7       0      0      0      1      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 14.5 100.0    22.6      -
 1100     10       0      0      1      2      5      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.9 90.0     21.9      -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Groups Printed- Vehicles
 1200     11       0      1      0      0      8      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.0 90.9     21.8   23.9                                                                          Covington Rd East of Campus
 1300     17       0      0      1      1      7      6      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.9 76.5     24.7   28.6                                                                             @ Blach Middle School
 1400     10       0      0      0      0      4      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.4 100.0    24.9      -                                   Start Time                Peds               Bikes          Drop Offs   App. Total          Int. Total
 1500      9       0      0      0      3      3      2      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.9 77.8     24.0      -
 1600     11       0      0      0      1      6      3      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.1 90.9     24.9   26.4                                   07:00 AM                     1                   4                  0           5                   5
 1700      8       0      1      0      1      2      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.2 75.0     22.7      -                                   07:15 AM                     2                   0                  0           2                   2
 1800     11       0      0      1      1      5      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.6 81.8     23.4   27.5                                   07:30 AM                     4                   6                  0          10                  10
 1900     11       0      0      1      2      5      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.0 72.7     21.9   26.4
 2000      2       0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.4 100.0    25.1      -                                   07:45 AM                     8                  10                  0          18                  18
 2100      3       0      0      0      0      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.8 100.0    24.8      -                                         Total                 15                  20                  0          35                  35
 2200      4       0      0      2      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   4.7 50.0    19.9      -
07-19    117       1      3      4     12     58     35      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.8 81.2     23.2   27.3
06-22    136       1      3      5     14     68     41      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.8 80.9     23.1   27.3
                                                                                                                                                                                    08:00 AM                    5                   3                 0            8                   8
06-00    140       1      3      7     14     69     42      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.8 80.0     23.0   27.3                                    08:15 AM                    0                   2                 0            2                   2
00-00    142       1      3      7     15     69     43      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.8 79.6     23.0   27.3                                    08:30 AM                    1                   1                 0            2                   2
                                                                                                                                                                                    08:45 AM                    1                   1                 0            2                   2
Peak step 13:00 (17) AM Peak step 9:00 (10) PM Peak step 13:00 (17)
                                                                                                                                                                                        Total                   7                   7                 0           14                  14
* Grand Total
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                  Grand Total                 22                  27                  0           49                  49
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85                                   Apprch %                  44.9                55.1                 0
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100                                                               Total %                 44.9                55.1                 0          100
   --    290       1      6     17     35    128     93      8      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.6 77.6     23.0   27.3

In profile:       Vehicles = 290 / 784 (36.99%)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Covington Rd East of Campus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             @ Blach Middle School
                                                                                                                                                                                      Start Time            Peds                Bikes          Drop Offs   App. Total          Int. Total
                                                                                                                                                      Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
                                                                                                                                                      Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                                                                                                                                                       07:15 AM                  2                  0                  0           2                   2
                                                                                                                                                                                       07:30 AM                  4                  6                  0          10                  10
                                                                                                                                                                                       07:45 AM                  8                 10                  0          18                  18
                                                                                                                                                                                       08:00 AM                  5                  3                  0           8                   8
                                                                                                                                                                                   Total Volume                19                  19                  0          38                  38
                                                                                                                                                                                    % App. Total               50                  50                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                            PHF              .594                .475               .000        .528               .528
         Traffic Data Service                                                                                                        Traffic Data Service
                 Campbell, CA                                                                                                              Campbell, CA
                (408) 377-2988                                                                                                            (408) 377-2988
                tdsbay@cs.com             File Name    : 11AM                                                                             tdsbay@cs.com                      File Name    : 12AM
                                          Site Code    : 00000011                                                                                                            Site Code    : 00000012
                                          Start Date   : 10/19/2010                                                                                                          Start Date   : 10/19/2010
                                          Page No      :2                                                                                                                    Page No      :1
            Covington Rd East of Campus
              Out        In       Total
                  0         38       38
                                                                                                                                      Groups Printed- Vehicles
                   19   19      0                                                                                                        Covington Rd West of Campus
                Peds Bikes Drop                                                                                                              @ Blach Middle School
                           Offs                                                                    Start Time                Peds               Bikes          Drop Offs   App. Total          Int. Total
                                                                                                   07:00 AM                     1                   4                  1           6                   6
                                                                                                   07:15 AM                     2                   1                  6           9                   9
                                                                                                   07:30 AM                     3                   2                  6          11                  11
                                                                                                   07:45 AM                    11                  49                34           94                  94
                                                                                                         Total                 17                  56                47          120                 120

                                                                                                    08:00 AM                   16                  25               103          144                144
           Peak Hour Data                                                                           08:15 AM                    1                   0                 0            1                  1
                                                                                                    08:30 AM                    1                   0                 3            4                  4
   19
Total




                                                                                                    08:45 AM                    1                   1                 2            4                  4




                                               Out
                                                                                                        Total                  19                  26               108          153                153




                                           0
                       North
     0




                                                                                                  Grand Total                 36                   82               155          273                273
In




                                               In
         Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                                                                   Apprch %                  13.2                  30               56.8




                                           0
         Vehicles                                                                                    Total %                 13.2                  30               56.8         100
  19
Out




                                           Total
                                               0
                                                                                                                                          Covington Rd West of Campus
                                                                                                                                             @ Blach Middle School
                                                                                                      Start Time            Peds                Bikes          Drop Offs   App. Total          Int. Total
                                                                      Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
                                                                      Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                                                                       07:15 AM                  2                  1                  6           9                  9
                                                                                                       07:30 AM                  3                  2                  6          11                 11
                                                                                                       07:45 AM                11                  49                 34          94                 94
                                                                                                       08:00 AM                16                  25                103         144                144
                                                                                                   Total Volume                32                  77                149         258                258
                                                                                                    % App. Total             12.4                29.8               57.8
                 19           0      19                                                                     PHF              .500                .393               .362        .448               .448
               Out       In       Total
         Traffic Data Service                                                                                                        Traffic Data Service
                 Campbell, CA                                                                                                              Campbell, CA
                (408) 377-2988                                                                                                            (408) 377-2988
                tdsbay@cs.com             File Name    : 12AM                                                                             tdsbay@cs.com                      File Name    : 13AM
                                          Site Code    : 00000012                                                                                                            Site Code    : 00000013
                                          Start Date   : 10/19/2010                                                                                                          Start Date   : 10/19/2010
                                          Page No      :2                                                                                                                    Page No      :1
            Covington Rd West of Campus
              Out        In       Total
                  0       258       258
                                                                                                                                      Groups Printed- Vehicles
                   32   77   149                                                                                                                Muir Wy Entrance
                Peds Bikes Drop                                                                                                              @ Blach Middle School
                           Offs                                                                    Start Time                Peds               Bikes          Drop Offs   App. Total          Int. Total
                                                                                                   07:00 AM                     1                   0                  0           1                   1
                                                                                                   07:15 AM                     0                   1                  0           1                   1
                                                                                                   07:30 AM                     1                   0                  0           1                   1
                                                                                                   07:45 AM                    32                   5                  0          37                  37
                                                                                                         Total                 34                   6                  0          40                  40

                                                                                                    08:00 AM                   13                   7                 0           20                  20
           Peak Hour Data                                                                           08:15 AM                    0                   0                 0            0                   0
                                                                                                    08:30 AM                    0                   2                 0            2                   2
   32
Total




                                                                                                    08:45 AM                    0                   0                 0            0                   0




                                           Out
                                            149
                       North                                                                            Total                  13                   9                 0           22                  22
     0




                                                                                                  Grand Total                 47                  15                  0           62                  62
In




                                               In
         Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                                                                   Apprch %                  75.8                24.2                 0




                                           0
         Vehicles                                                                                    Total %                 75.8                24.2                 0          100
  32
Out




                                           Total
                                            149
                                                                                                                                               Muir Wy Entrance
                                                                                                                                             @ Blach Middle School
                                                                                                      Start Time            Peds               Bikes          Drop Offs    App. Total          Int. Total
                                                                      Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
                                                                      Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                                                                       07:15 AM                  0                  1                  0           1                   1
                                                                                                       07:30 AM                  1                  0                  0           1                   1
                                                                                                       07:45 AM                32                   5                  0          37                  37
                                                                                                       08:00 AM                13                   7                  0          20                  20
                                                                                                   Total Volume                46                  13                  0          59                  59
                                                                                                    % App. Total               78                  22                  0
                 77           0      77                                                                     PHF              .359                .464               .000        .399               .399
               Out       In       Total
         Traffic Data Service                                                                                                           Traffic Data Service
                 Campbell, CA                                                                                                                Campbell, CA
                (408) 377-2988                                                                                                              (408) 377-2988
                tdsbay@cs.com                File Name    : 13AM                                                                            tdsbay@cs.com                       File Name    : 14AM
                                             Site Code    : 00000013                                                                                                            Site Code    : 00000014
                                             Start Date   : 10/19/2010                                                                                                          Start Date   : 10/19/2010
                                             Page No      :2                                                                                                                    Page No      :1
                     Muir Wy Entrance
               Out          In       Total
                     0         59       59
                                                                                                                                         Groups Printed- Vehicles
                   46   13      0                                                                                                           Altamead Dr Rear Bridge Entry
                Peds Bikes Drop                                                                                                                 @ Blach Middle School
                           Offs                                                                       Start Time                Peds               Bikes          Drop Off    App. Total          Int. Total
                                                                                                      07:00 AM                     0                   3                 0            3                   3
                                                                                                      07:15 AM                     1                   3                 0            4                   4
                                                                                                      07:30 AM                     4                   8                 1           13                  13
                                                                                                      07:45 AM                    21                  44                 4           69                  69
                                                                                                            Total                 26                  58                 5           89                  89

                                                                                                       08:00 AM                   29                 33                  4           66                  66
           Peak Hour Data                                                                              08:15 AM                    0                  0                  0            0                   0
                                                                                                       08:30 AM                    0                  0                  0            0                   0
   46
Total




                                                                                                       08:45 AM                    0                  0                  0            0                   0




                                                  Out
                                                                                                           Total                  29                 33                  4           66                  66




                                              0
                          North
     0




                                                                                                     Grand Total                 55                  91                  9          155                155
In




                                                  In
         Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                                                                      Apprch %                  35.5                58.7               5.8




                                              0
         Vehicles                                                                                       Total %                 35.5                58.7               5.8          100
  46
Out




                                              Total
                                                  0
                                                                                                                                            Altamead Dr Rear Bridge Entry
                                                                                                                                                @ Blach Middle School
                                                                                                         Start Time            Peds               Bikes           Drop Off    App. Total          Int. Total
                                                                         Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
                                                                         Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                                                                          07:15 AM                  1                  3                  0           4                  4
                                                                                                          07:30 AM                  4                  8                  1          13                 13
                                                                                                          07:45 AM                21                  44                  4          69                 69
                                                                                                          08:00 AM                29                  33                  4          66                 66
                                                                                                      Total Volume                55                  88                  9         152                152
                                                                                                       % App. Total             36.2                57.9                5.9
                 13              0      13                                                                     PHF              .474                .500              .563         .551               .551
               Out          In       Total
         Traffic Data Service                                                                                                          Traffic Data Service
                 Campbell, CA                                                                                                                Campbell, CA
                (408) 377-2988                                                                                                              (408) 377-2988
                tdsbay@cs.com               File Name    : 14AM                                                                             tdsbay@cs.com                        File Name    : 15AM
                                            Site Code    : 00000014                                                                                                              Site Code    : 00000015
                                            Start Date   : 10/19/2010                                                                                                            Start Date   : 10/19/2010
                                            Page No      :2                                                                                                                      Page No      :1
            Altamead Dr Rear Bridge Entry
               Out       In       Total
                   0      152       152
                                                                                                                                        Groups Printed- Vehicles
                   55   88      9                                                                                                        Thatcher Dr from South Dr, Mt. View
                Peds Bikes Drop                                                                                                                @ Blach Middle School
                            Off                                                                      Start Time                Peds               Bikes          Drop Offs     App. Total          Int. Total
                                                                                                     07:00 AM                     3                   5                   0            8                   8
                                                                                                     07:15 AM                     4                   0                   1            5                   5
                                                                                                     07:30 AM                     2                   7                   0            9                   9
                                                                                                     07:45 AM                     7                  11                   1           19                  19
                                                                                                           Total                 16                  23                   2           41                  41

                                                                                                      08:00 AM                    9                   3                  2            14                  14
           Peak Hour Data                                                                             08:15 AM                    2                   2                  0             4                   4
                                                                                                      08:30 AM                    1                   1                  0             2                   2
   55
Total




                                                                                                      08:45 AM                    1                   2                  0             3                   3




                                                 Out
                                                                                                          Total                  13                   8                  2            23                  23




                                             9
                       North
     0




                                                                                                    Grand Total                 29                  31                   4            64                  64
In




                                                 In
         Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                                                                     Apprch %                  45.3                48.4                6.2




                                             0
         Vehicles                                                                                      Total %                 45.3                48.4                6.2           100
  55
Out




                                             Total
                                                 9
                                                                                                                                         Thatcher Dr from South Dr, Mt. View
                                                                                                                                               @ Blach Middle School
                                                                                                        Start Time            Peds                Bikes          Drop Offs     App. Total          Int. Total
                                                                        Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
                                                                        Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                                                                         07:15 AM                  4                  0                   1            5                   5
                                                                                                         07:30 AM                  2                  7                   0            9                   9
                                                                                                         07:45 AM                  7                 11                   1           19                  19
                                                                                                         08:00 AM                  9                  3                   2           14                  14
                                                                                                     Total Volume                22                  21                   4           47                  47
                                                                                                      % App. Total             46.8                44.7                 8.5
                 88           0      88                                                                       PHF              .611                .477               .500          .618               .618
               Out       In       Total
         Traffic Data Service                                                                                                              Traffic Data Service
                 Campbell, CA                                                                                                                    Campbell, CA
                (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                  (408) 377-2988
                tdsbay@cs.com                   File Name    : 15AM                                                                             tdsbay@cs.com                           File Name    : 16AM
                                                Site Code    : 00000015                                                                                                                 Site Code    : 00000016
                                                Start Date   : 10/19/2010                                                                                                               Start Date   : 10/19/2010
                                                Page No      :2                                                                                                                         Page No      :1
          Thatcher Dr from South Dr, Mt. View
               Out        In       Total
                   0         47        47
                                                                                                                                         Groups Printed- Vehicles
                   22   21      4                                                                                                       Portland Ave at Carmel Ter. & Concord Av
                Peds Bikes Drop                                                                                                                  @ Blach Middle School
                           Offs                                                                          Start Time                Peds             Bikes            Drop Off         App. Total          Int. Total
                                                                                                         07:00 AM                     0                 0                  0                  0                   0
                                                                                                         07:15 AM                     2                 3                  0                  5                   5
                                                                                                         07:30 AM                     4                 6                  0                 10                  10
                                                                                                         07:45 AM                    13                40                  0                 53                  53
                                                                                                               Total                 19                49                  0                 68                  68

                                                                                                          08:00 AM                   13                  18                  0               31                  31
           Peak Hour Data                                                                                 08:15 AM                    2                   0                  0                2                   2
                                                                                                          08:30 AM                    1                   0                  0                1                   1
   22
Total




                                                                                                          08:45 AM                    0                   0                  0                0                   0




                                                     Out
                                                                                                              Total                  16                  18                  0               34                  34




                                                 4
                        North
     0




                                                                                                        Grand Total                 35                  67                   0              102                102
In




                                                     In
         Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                                                                         Apprch %                  34.3                65.7                  0




                                                 0
         Vehicles                                                                                          Total %                 34.3                65.7                  0              100
  22
Out




                                                 Total
                                                     4
                                                                                                                                           Portland Ave at Carmel Ter. & Concord Av
                                                                                                                                                    @ Blach Middle School
                                                                                                            Start Time            Peds                 Bikes            Drop Off      App. Total          Int. Total
                                                                            Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
                                                                            Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                                                                             07:15 AM                  2                  3                  0                5                   5
                                                                                                             07:30 AM                  4                  6                  0               10                  10
                                                                                                             07:45 AM                13                  40                  0               53                  53
                                                                                                             08:00 AM                13                  18                  0               31                  31
                                                                                                         Total Volume                32                  67                  0               99                  99
                                                                                                          % App. Total             32.3                67.7                  0
                 21            0      21                                                                          PHF              .615                .419               .000             .467               .467
               Out        In       Total
         Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                              Traffic Data Service
                  Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                      Campbell, CA
                 (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                    (408) 377-2988
                 tdsbay@cs.com                      File Name    : 16AM                                                                                            tdsbay@cs.com                                                         File Name            : 1AM FINAL
                                                    Site Code    : 00000016                                                                                                                                                              Site Code            : 00000001
                                                    Start Date   : 10/19/2010                                                                                                                                                            Start Date           : 10/19/2010
                                                    Page No      :2                                                                                                                                                                      Page No              :1
         Portland Ave at Carmel Ter. & Concord Av
                 Out        In        Total
                     0         99        99
                                                                                                                                               Groups Printed- Vehicles
                     32   67      0                                                                  MIRAMONTE AVE                   COVINGTON RD                    MIRAMONTE AVE                   COVINGTON RD
                  Peds Bikes Drop                                                                       Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound
                              Off                                                Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                                            App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                  07:00 AM       2     23     6    0      31     27    18    3    0       48      6    59     5    1      71      3    26   14    3                                                 46        196
                                                                                  07:15 AM      10     26    11    0      47     30    13    2    0       45     14    97     4    2    117       3    24   62    1                                                 90        299
                                                                                  07:30 AM      11     50    17    1      79     26    25    7    0       58     11    78     2  23     114       1    36   38    2                                                 77        328
                                                                                  07:45 AM       4     40    43    0      87     41    33    8    2       84     24    39     0  73     136       2    74   14    5                                                 95        402
                                                                                      Total     27    139    77    1    244 124        89   20    2     235      55 273      11  99     438       9 160 128      11                                                308       1225

                                                                                  08:00 AM       7    53      18      0         78        28     51       10       5         94        13     65       3      28        109         4     47      4      5          60        341
             Peak Hour Data                                                       08:15 AM      10    33       4      0         47         9     31        4       2         46         6     69       6       1         82         7     45     22      1          75        250
                                                                                  08:30 AM       6    46      11      0         63         6     23        8       0         37        17     77       2       0         96         2     30     34      0          66        262
   32
Total




                                                                                  08:45 AM       7    24      12      0         43         9     12        3       0         24        10     67       3       0         80         3     22      5      1          31        178




                                                         Out
                                                                                      Total     30   156      45      0        231        52    117       25       7        201        46    278      14      29        367        16    144     65      7         232       1031




                                                     0
                          North
     0




                                                                                 Grand Total   57     295    122       1       475       176     206     45        9        436       101     551     25     128        805        25     304   193      18        540       2256
In




                                                         In
          Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM                                            Apprch %     12    62.1   25.7     0.2                40.4    47.2    10.3     2.1                 12.5    68.4    3.1    15.9                  4.6    56.3   35.7    3.3




                                                     0
          Vehicles
                                                                                    Total %    2.5   13.1     5.4      0      21.1        7.8     9.1      2     0.4       19.3        4.5   24.4    1.1      5.7      35.7       1.1    13.5    8.6    0.8       23.9
  32
Out




                                                     Total
                                                         0
                                                                                                     MIRAMONTE AVE                              COVINGTON RD                                 MIRAMONTE AVE                               COVINGTON RD
                                                                                                       Southbound                                 Westbound                                    Northbound                                  Eastbound
                                                                                 Start Time Right    Thru    Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru     Left   Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Int. Total

                                                                                Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
                                                                                Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                                                  07:15 AM      10      26     11      0       47    30  13                 2       0        45        14      97       4      2        117          3     24     62      1         90        299
                                                                                  07:30 AM      11      50     17      1       79    26  25                 7       0        58        11      78       2     23        114          1     36     38      2         77        328
                                                                                  07:45 AM        4     40     43      0       87    41  33                 8       2        84        24      39       0     73        136          2     74     14      5         95        402
                                                                                  08:00 AM        7     53     18      0       78    28  51                10       5        94        13      65       3     28        109          4     47      4      5         60        341
                                                                                 Total Volume   32 169         89      1      291 125 122                  27       7       281        62     279       9    126        476         10    181    118     13        322       1370
                                                                                 % App. Total   11 58.1 30.6         0.3           44.5 43.4              9.6     2.5                  13    58.6     1.9   26.5                   3.1   56.2   36.6      4
                  67             0      67
                                                                                         PHF .727 .797 .517 .250             .836 .762 .598             .675    .350       .747      .646    .719   .563    .432       .875      .625    .611   .476   .650       .847        .852
                Out         In       Total
                                        Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                         Traffic Data Service
                                                Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                 Campbell, CA
                                               (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                               (408) 377-2988
                                               tdsbay@cs.com                           File Name              : 1AM FINAL                                                                                   tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name       : 1AM FINAL
                                                                                       Site Code              : 00000001                                                                                                                                                        Site Code       : 00000001
                                                                                       Start Date             : 10/19/2010                                                                                                                                                      Start Date      : 10/19/2010
                                                                                       Page No                :2             BIKES                                                                                                                                              Page No         :1
                                                 MIRAMONTE AVE
                                              Out      In    Total
                                               522      291    813
                                                                                                                                                                                            Groups Printed- Bikes
                                              32   169          89    1                                                                           MIRAMONTE AVE                   COVINGTON RD                    MIRAMONTE AVE                   COVINGTON RD
                                           Right Thru        Left Peds                                                                               Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound
                                                                                                                              Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                                     App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                               07:00 AM       0      0    0     0        0     0     0    0    0         0     0     0    0     0        0     0     2    0    0                                            2           2
                                                                                                                               07:15 AM       0      1    0     0        1     1     0    0    0         1     0     1    0     0        1     0     2    0    0                                            2           5
                                                                                                                               07:30 AM       0      3    0     0        3     0     1    0    0         1     0     0    0     0        0     0     3    0    0                                            3           7
                                                                                                                               07:45 AM       1      3    0     0        4     0     1    0    0         1     1     0    0     0        1     0     3    0    0                                            3           9
                                                                                                                                   Total      1      7    0     0        8     1     2    0    0         3     1     1    0     0        2     0    10    0    0                                           10          23

                                                                                                                               08:00 AM       0      1     0      0            1       0      0      0      0            0       0      1      0      0            1       0      2      0      0            2          4
                                          Peak Hour Data                                                                       08:15 AM       0      0     0      0            0       0      1      0      0            1       0      1      0      0            1       0      1      0      0            1          3
                                                                                                                               08:30 AM       0      1     0      0            1       0      0      0      0            0       0      1      0      0            1       0      1      0      0            1          3
               485


                       118




                                                                          Right Thru
              Total




                      Left




                                                                                                                               08:45 AM       0      1     0      0            1       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      2      0      0            2          3




                                                                            125



                                                                                        Out
                                                                                         332
                                                                                                                                   Total      0      3     0      0            3       0      1      0      0            1       0      3      0      0            3       0      6      0      0            6         13
  COVINGTON RD




                                                                                           COVINGTON RD
                                                         North
                                  181
                      Peds Right Thru




                                                                                 122
        322




                                                                                                                              Grand Total     1     10     0      0          11        1       3     0      0            4       1       4     0      0            5       0      16     0      0          16          36
        In




                                                                                                In
                                        Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM




                                                                                                281
                                                                                                                               Apprch %     9.1   90.9     0      0                   25      75     0      0                  20      80      0      0                    0     100     0      0
                              10




                                                                          Left Peds
                                        Vehicles
                                                                                                                                 Total %    2.8   27.8     0      0       30.6       2.8     8.3     0      0       11.1       2.8    11.1     0      0       13.9         0    44.4     0      0       44.4




                                                                            27
 163
Out




                                                                                                      Total
                        13




                                                                                                        613
                                                                                  7                                                               MIRAMONTE AVE                             COVINGTON RD                              MIRAMONTE AVE                             COVINGTON RD
                                                                                                                                                    Southbound                                Westbound                                 Northbound                                Eastbound
                                                                                                                              Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total

                                                                                                                             Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
                                                                                                                             Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                                                                                               07:15 AM        0       1     0      0        1     1    0             0      0           1       0       1      0      0           1       0       2      0      0          2           5
                                                                                                                               07:30 AM        0       3     0      0        3     0    1             0      0           1       0       0      0      0           0       0       3      0      0          3           7
                                                                                                                               07:45 AM        1       3     0      0        4     0    1             0      0           1       1       0      0      0           1       0       3      0      0          3           9
                                            Left       Thru Right Peds
                                                   9     279   62   126                                                        08:00 AM        0       1     0      0        1     0    0             0      0           0       0       1      0      0           1       0       2      0      0          2           4
                                                                                                                              Total Volume     1       8     0      0        9     1    2             0      0           3       1       2      0      0           3       0      10      0      0         10          25
                                                                                                                              % App. Total 11.1 88.9         0      0           33.3 66.7             0      0                33.3    66.7      0      0                   0     100      0      0
                                               206      476    682
                                                                                                                                      PHF .250 .667 .000 .000             .563 .250 .500           .000   .000      .750      .250    .500   .000   .000      .750      .000    .833   .000   .000      .833        .694
                                              Out      In    Total
                                                 MIRAMONTE AVE
                                               Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                                Traffic Data Service
                                                        Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                       Campbell, CA
                                                       (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                     (408) 377-2988
                                                       tdsbay@cs.com                                 File Name              : 1AM FINAL                                                                                   tdsbay@cs.com                                                        File Name            : 2AM FINAL
                                                                                                     Site Code              : 00000001                                                                                                                                                         Site Code            : 00000002
                                                                                                     Start Date             : 10/19/2010                                                                                                                                                       Start Date           : 10/19/2010
BIKES                                                                                                Page No                :2                                                                                                                                                                 Page No              :1

                                                          MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                       Out      In    Total                                                                                                                               Groups Printed- Vehicles
                                                           3       9     12
                                                                                                                                                                MIRAMONTE AVE                    EASTWOOD DR                    MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                                                                                                                   Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound
                                                      1     8              0       0                                                        Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                                       App. Total   Int. Total
                                                  Right Thru        Left       Peds
                                                                                                                                             07:00 AM       0     29    0     0      29      0     0    5    0         5     0    69    0     0      69      0     0    0    0                                               0       103
                                                                                                                                             07:15 AM       0     29    2     0      31      0     0    3    0         3     2 125      0     1    128       0     0    0    0                                               0       162
                                                                                                                                             07:30 AM       0     64    0     0      64      0     0    3    0         3     9 100      0     0    109       0     0    0    0                                               0       176
                                                                                                                                             07:45 AM       0     46    2     0      48      0     0   13    0       13      1    81    0     0      82      0     0    0    0                                               0       143
                                                                                                                                                 Total      0    168    4     0    172       0     0   24    0       24     12 375      0     1    388       0     0    0    0                                               0       584

                                                                                                                                             08:00 AM       0    60      6      0         66         0      0     21      0          21        4     73      0       0         77         0      0      0      0             0       164
                                                                                                                                             08:15 AM       0    54      0      0         54         0      0      3      0           3        0     83      0       0         83         0      0      0      0             0       140
                                                                                                                                             08:30 AM       0    61      2      0         63         1      0      1      0           2        1    104      0       0        105         0      0      0      0             0       170
                                                 Peak Hour Data                                                                              08:45 AM       0    48      0      0         48         0      0      3      0           3        1     91      0       0         92         0      0      0      0             0       143
                                                                                                                                                 Total      0   223      8      0        231         1      0     28      0          29        6    351      0       0        357         0      0      0      0             0       617
                        13


                                 0




                                                                                       Right Thru
                     Total




                             Left




                                                                                                      Out
                                                                                           1


                                                                                                        11
         COVINGTON RD




                                                                                                         COVINGTON RD
                                                                North                                                                       Grand Total     0    391    12      0        403         1      0      52     0          53       18     726     0       1        745         0      0      0      0             0     1201
                                          10
                             Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                             Apprch %       0     97     3      0                  1.9      0    98.1     0                  2.4    97.4     0     0.1                    0      0      0      0
                 10




                                                                                                                                               Total %      0   32.6     1      0       33.6       0.1      0     4.3     0         4.4      1.5    60.4     0     0.1          62        0      0      0      0             0
               In




                                                                                                 2



                                                                                                              In
                                               Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM
                                      0




                                                                                       Left Peds



                                                                                                                 3
                                               Bikes



                                                                                           0
            3
        Out




                                                                                                                    Total
                                0




                                                                                                                       14
                                                                                               0                                                                MIRAMONTE AVE                             EASTWOOD DR                               MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                                                                                                                  Southbound                                Westbound                                 Northbound                                  Eastbound
                                                                                                                                            Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Int. Total

                                                                                                                                           Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
                                                                                                                                           Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                                                                                                             07:15 AM        0     29       2     0       31    0    0              3      0          3        2     125      0       1       128         0       0      0      0            0       162
                                                                                                                                             07:30 AM        0     64       0     0       64    0    0              3      0          3        9     100      0       0       109         0       0      0      0            0       176
                                                                                                                                             07:45 AM        0     46       2     0       48    0    0             13      0         13        1      81      0       0        82         0       0      0      0            0       143
                                                                                                                                             08:00 AM        0     60       6     0       66    0    0             21      0         21        4      73      0       0        77         0       0      0      0            0       164
                                                   Left       Thru Right Peds                                                               Total Volume     0 199         10     0      209    0    0             40      0         40       16     379      0       1       396         0       0      0      0            0       645
                                                          0       2    1     0                                                              % App. Total     0 95.2       4.8     0             0    0            100      0                   4    95.7      0     0.3                   0       0      0      0
                                                                                                                                                    PHF .000 .777 .417 .000             .792 .000 .000           .476   .000      .476      .444    .758   .000   .250       .773      .000    .000   .000   .000       .000        .916
                                                           8       3     11
                                                       Out      In    Total
                                                          MIRAMONTE AVE
                             Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                         Traffic Data Service
                                     Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                 Campbell, CA
                                    (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                               (408) 377-2988
                                    tdsbay@cs.com                            File Name             : 2AM FINAL                                                                                   tdsbay@cs.com                                                        File Name            : 2AM FINAL
                                                                             Site Code             : 00000002                                                                                                                                                         Site Code            : 00000002
                                                                             Start Date            : 10/19/2010                                                                                                                                                       Start Date           : 10/19/2010
                                                                             Page No               :2             BIKES                                                                                                                                               Page No              :1
                                      MIRAMONTE AVE
                                   Out      In    Total
                                    379      209    588
                                                                                                                                                                                 Groups Printed- Bikes
                                    0   199          10    0                                                                           MIRAMONTE AVE                    EASTWOOD DR                    MIRAMONTE AVE
                                Right Thru        Left Peds                                                                               Southbound                      Westbound                       Northbound                      Eastbound
                                                                                                                   Start Time Right    Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                                       App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                    07:00 AM       0      0    0     0        0     0     0    0    0         0     0     0    0     0        0     0     0    0    0                                               0          0
                                                                                                                    07:15 AM       0      0    0     0        0     1     0    0    0         1     0     0    0     0        0     0     0    0    0                                               0          1
                                                                                                                    07:30 AM       0      0    0     0        0     1     0    0    0         1     1     0    0     0        1     2     0    0    0                                               2          4
                                                                                                                    07:45 AM       0      0    0     0        0     1     0    0    0         1     8     0    0     0        8     2     0    0    0                                               2         11
                                                                                                                        Total      0      0    0     0        0     3     0    0    0         3     9     0    0     0        9     4     0    0    0                                               4         16

                                                                                                                    08:00 AM       0      0     0      0            0       3      0      1      0            4       3       1      0      0            4       0      0      0      0             0          8
                               Peak Hour Data                                                                       08:15 AM       0      0     0      0            0       1      0      0      0            1       0       0      0      0            0       1      0      0      0             1          2
                                                                                                                    08:30 AM       0      0     0      0            0       1      0      0      0            1       1       0      0      0            1       1      0      0      0             1          3
    0


              0




                                                               Right Thru
Total




          Left




                                                                                                                    08:45 AM       0      0     0      0            0       2      0      0      0            2       0       0      0      0            0       1      0      0      0             1          3




                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                        Total      0      0     0      0            0       7      0      1      0            8       4       1      0      0            5       3      0      0      0             3         16




                                                                   0


                                                                                26

                                                                                 EASTWOOD DR
                                              North
                         0
          Peds Right Thru
      0




                                                                                                                   Grand Total     0      0     0      0            0      10      0       1     0          11       13       1      0      0          14        7      0      0      0             7         32
In




                                                                         0



                                                                                      In
                             Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM                                                           Apprch %       0      0     0      0                 90.9      0     9.1     0                 92.9     7.1      0      0                  100      0      0      0




                                                                                        40
                   0




                                                               Left Peds
                             Vehicles
                                                                                                                      Total %      0      0     0      0            0    31.2      0     3.1     0       34.4      40.6     3.1      0      0       43.8      21.9      0      0      0        21.9




                                                                 40
      0
Out




                                                                                           Total
             0




                                                                                              66
                                                                       0                                                               MIRAMONTE AVE                             EASTWOOD DR                               MIRAMONTE AVE
                                                                                                                                         Southbound                                Westbound                                 Northbound                                  Eastbound
                                                                                                                   Start Time Right    Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Int. Total

                                                                                                                  Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
                                                                                                                  Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
                                                                                                                    07:30 AM        0       0     0      0        0     1   0              0      0           1       1        0      0      0          1        2       0      0      0            2          4
                                                                                                                    07:45 AM        0       0     0      0        0     1   0              0      0           1       8        0      0      0          8        2       0      0      0            2         11
                                                                                                                    08:00 AM        0       0     0      0        0     3   0              1      0           4       3        1      0      0          4        0       0      0      0            0          8
                                 Left       Thru Right Peds
                                        0     379   16     1                                                        08:15 AM        0       0     0      0        0     1   0              0      0           1       0        0      0      0          0        1       0      0      0            1          2
                                                                                                                   Total Volume     0       0     0      0        0     6   0              1      0           7      12        1      0      0         13        5       0      0      0            5         25
                                                                                                                   % App. Total     0       0     0      0           85.7   0           14.3      0                92.3      7.7      0      0                 100       0      0      0
                                    239      396    635
                                                                                                                           PHF .000 .000 .000 .000             .000 .500 .000           .250   .000      .438      .375    .250    .000   .000      .406      .625    .000   .000   .000       .625        .568
                                   Out      In    Total
                                      MIRAMONTE AVE
                                     Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                                Traffic Data Service
                                              Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                                         Campbell, CA
                                             (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                                       (408) 377-2988
                                             tdsbay@cs.com                                 File Name             : 2AM FINAL                                                                                      tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name            : 3AM FINAL
                                                                                           Site Code             : 00000002                                                                                                                                                           Site Code            : 00000003
                                                                                           Start Date            : 10/19/2010                                                                                                                                                         Start Date           : 10/19/2010
BIKES                                                                                      Page No               :2                                                                                                                                                                   Page No              :1

                                                MIRAMONTE AVE
                                             Out      In    Total                                                                                                                                             Groups Printed- Vehicles
                                                 7       0      7
                                                                                                                                                         GRANT RD                                                                       GRANT RD                                      COVINGTON RD
                                                                                                                                                         Southbound                                Westbound                            Northbound                                      Eastbound
                                            0     0              0       0                                                       Start Time Right     Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds      App. Total Right Thru Left Peds              App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds        App. Total   Int. Total
                                        Right Thru        Left       Peds
                                                                                                                                  07:00 AM      18      67    0     0           85         0       0    0    0              0     0 152      20    0                 172        19      0   24     0             43        300
                                                                                                                                  07:15 AM      18      97    0     0          115         0       0    0    0              0     0 155      28    0                 183        17      0   37     0             54        352
                                                                                                                                  07:30 AM      32     156    0     0          188         0       0    0    0              0     0 162      24    2                 188        27      0   45     0             72        448
                                                                                                                                  07:45 AM      36     146    0     0          182         0       0    0    0              0     0 186      55    1                 242        58      0   55     0            113        537
                                                                                                                                      Total    104     466    0     0          570         0       0    0    0              0     0 655 127        3                 785       121      0 161      0            282       1637

                                                                                                                                  08:00 AM      35     82      0      0        117         0      0      0        0           0       0    126     27       0        153        25      0     43      0          68        338
                                                                                                                                  08:15 AM      25     75      0      0        100         0      0      0        0           0       0    155     14       0        169        16      0     39      0          55        324
                                                                                                                                  08:30 AM      19     80      0      1        100         0      0      0        0           0       0    210     19       0        229        12      0     49      0          61        390
                                       Peak Hour Data                                                                             08:45 AM      13    107      0      0        120         0      0      0        0           0       0    244     30       0        274        23      0     40      0          63        457
                                                                                                                                      Total     92    344      0      1        437         0      0      0        0           0       0    735     90       0        825        76      0    171      0         247       1509
            5


                      0




                                                                             Right Thru
        Total




                  Left




                                                                                            Out
                                                                                 6


                                                                                              12

                                                                                               EASTWOOD DR
                                                      North                                                                      Grand Total   196    810      0      1      1007          0      0      0        0           0       0 1390       217      3      1610        197      0     332      0        529        3146
                                 0
                  Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                  Apprch %     19.5   80.4     0     0.1                   0      0      0        0                   0    86.3   13.5    0.2                 37.2      0    62.8      0
              5




                                                                                                                                    Total %     6.2   25.7     0       0         32        0      0      0        0           0       0    44.2    6.9    0.1       51.2       6.3      0    10.6      0       16.8
        In




                                                                                       0



                                                                                                    In
                                     Peak Hour Begins at 07:30 AM
                           5




                                                                             Left Peds



                                                                                                       7
                                     Bikes



                                                                                 1
              0
        Out




                                                                                                         Total
                     0




                                                                                                            19
                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                        GRANT RD                                                                             GRANT RD                                 COVINGTON RD
                                                                                                                                                        Southbound                                Westbound                                  Northbound                                 Eastbound
                                                                                                                                 Start Time Right     Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left    Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Int. Total

                                                                                                                                Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
                                                                                                                                Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                                                                                                  07:15 AM      18      97       0     0      115    0    0               0       0           0       0     155     28       0       183        17       0     37      0         54        352
                                                                                                                                  07:30 AM      32 156           0     0      188    0    0               0       0           0       0     162     24       2       188        27       0     45      0         72        448
                                                                                                                                  07:45 AM      36 146           0     0      182    0    0               0       0           0       0     186     55       1       242        58       0     55      0        113        537
                                                                                                                                  08:00 AM      35      82       0     0      117    0    0               0       0           0       0     126     27       0       153        25       0     43      0         68        338
                                         Left       Thru Right Peds                                                              Total Volume  121 481          0      0      602    0    0               0       0           0       0     629    134       3       766       127       0    180      0        307       1675
                                                0       1   12     0                                                             % App. Total 20.1 79.9         0      0             0    0               0       0                   0    82.1   17.5     0.4                41.4       0   58.6      0
                                                                                                                                         PHF .840 .771 .000 .000             .801 .000 .000            .000    .000      .000      .000    .845   .609   .375       .791      .547    .000   .818   .000       .679        .780
                                                 6       13    19
                                             Out      In    Total
                                                MIRAMONTE AVE
                                         Traffic Data Service                                                                                                                                     Traffic Data Service
                                                 Campbell, CA                                                                                                                                             Campbell, CA
                                                (408) 377-2988                                                                                                                                           (408) 377-2988
                                                tdsbay@cs.com                                File Name    : 3AM FINAL                                                                                    tdsbay@cs.com                                                       File Name            : 3AM FINAL
                                                                                             Site Code    : 00000003                                                                                                                                                         Site Code            : 00000003
                                                                                             Start Date   : 10/19/2010                                                                                                                                                       Start Date           : 10/19/2010
                                                                                             Page No      :2             BIKES                                                                                                                                               Page No              :1
                                                      GRANT RD
                                               Out       In    Total
                                                809       602   1411
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Groups Printed- Bikes
                                              121   481            0       0                                                                      GRANT RD                                                                           GRANT RD                                COVINGTON RD
                                            Right Thru      Left       Peds                                                                       Southbound                                Westbound                                Northbound                                Eastbound
                                                                                                                          Start Time Right     Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds       App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds        App. Total   Int. Total
                                                                                                                           07:00 AM       0       1    0     0              1       0       0    0    0               0       0      1    0     0               1       2      0    0     0               2           4
                                                                                                                           07:15 AM       0       1    0     0              1       0       0    0    0               0       0      4    0     0               4       0      0    0     0               0           5
                                                                                                                           07:30 AM       0       3    0     0              3       0       0    0    0               0       0      2    0     0               2       5      0    0     0               5          10
                                                                                                                           07:45 AM       1       0    0     0              1       0       0    0    0               0       0      1    1     0               2       4      0    0     0               4           7
                                                                                                                               Total      1       5    0     0              6       0       0    0    0               0       0      8    1     0               9      11      0    0     0              11          26

                                                                                                                           08:00 AM       0      1      0      0            1       0      0      0      0            0       0      1      0      0            1       3      0      0      0             3           5
                                           Peak Hour Data                                                                  08:15 AM       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      1      1      0            2       0      0      0      0             0           2
                                                                                                                           08:30 AM       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      1      0      0            1       0      0      0      0             0           1
               562


                       180




                                                                               Right Thru
              Total




                      Left




                                                                                                                           08:45 AM       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      0      0            0       0      0      1      0             1           1




                                                                                                  Out
                                                                                                                               Total      0      1      0      0            1       0      0      0      0            0       0      3      1      0            4       3      0      1      0             4           9




                                                                                   0
  COVINGTON RD




                                                                                              0
                                                        North
                                     0
                      Peds Right Thru
        307




                                                                                                                          Grand Total      1      6     0      0            7       0      0      0      0            0       0     11       2     0          13       14      0       1     0           15          35
        In




                                                                                         0



                                                                                                  In
                                         Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM                                                      Apprch %     14.3   85.7     0      0                    0      0      0      0                    0    84.6   15.4     0                 93.3      0     6.7     0
                             127




                                                                               Left Peds



                                                                                              0
                                         Vehicles
                                                                                                                             Total %     2.9   17.1     0      0          20        0      0      0      0            0       0    31.4    5.7     0       37.1        40      0     2.9     0        42.9




                                                                                   0
 255
Out




                                                                                              Total
                         0




                                                                                                  0
                                                                                       0                                                         GRANT RD                                                                            GRANT RD                                COVINGTON RD
                                                                                                                                                 Southbound                                Westbound                                 Northbound                                Eastbound
                                                                                                                          Start Time Right     Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru   Left   Peds    App. Total   Int. Total

                                                                                                                         Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
                                                                                                                         Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
                                                                                                                           07:15 AM        0       1     0      0        1    0    0               0      0           0       0       4      0      0           4       0       0      0      0           0           5
                                                                                                                           07:30 AM        0       3     0      0        3    0    0               0      0           0       0       2      0      0           2       5       0      0      0           5          10
                                                                                                                           07:45 AM        1       0     0      0        1    0    0               0      0           0       0       1      1      0           2       4       0      0      0           4           7
                                             Left Thru Right Peds
                                              134   629    0     3                                                         08:00 AM        0       1     0      0        1    0    0               0      0           0       0       1      0      0           1       3       0      0      0           3           5
                                                                                                                          Total Volume     1       5     0      0        6    0    0               0      0           0       0       8      1      0           9      12       0      0      0          12          27
                                                                                                                          % App. Total 16.7 83.3         0      0             0    0               0      0                   0    88.9   11.1      0                 100       0      0      0
                                                608       766   1374
                                                                                                                                  PHF .250 .417 .000 .000             .500 .000 .000            .000   .000      .000      .000    .500   .250   .000      .563      .600    .000   .000   .000       .600        .675
                                               Out       In    Total
                                                      GRANT RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CustomList-3463 Page 1
                                                Traffic Data Service
                                                         Campbell, CA                                                                                                                            Traffic Data Service
                                                        (408) 377-2988
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Report
                                                        tdsbay@cs.com                                     File Name    : 3AM FINAL
                                                                                                          Site Code    : 00000003
                                                                                                          Start Date   : 10/19/2010   Datasets:
                                                                                                                                      Site:                    [1N] NB CARMEL TERRACE BETWEEN PORTLAND AVE & ALTAMEAD DR
BIKES                                                                                                     Page No      :2             Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)

                                                                   GRANT RD
                                                                                                                                      Profile:
                                                        Out           In    Total                                                     Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
                                                               8         6     14                                                     Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
                                                                                                                                      Direction:               North (bound)
                                                       1     5                  0       0                                             Separation:              All - (Headway)
                                                   Right Thru            Left       Peds                                              Name:                    Default Profile
                                                                                                                                      Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
                                                                                                                                      Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)

                                                                                                                                      Column Legend:
                                                                                                                                      0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
                                                                                                                                      1 [Total]                Number in time step
                                                                                                                                      2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
                                                  Peak Hour Data                                                                      3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                                                                                                                                      4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
                        14


                                 0




                                                                                            Right Thru
                     Total




                             Left




                                                                                                                                      5 [Mean]                 Average speed




                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                      6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
         COVINGTON RD




                                                                                                           0
                                                                     North
                                            0
                             Peds Right Thru
                 12
               In




                                                                                                      0



                                                                                                               In
                                                Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM
                                     12




                                                                                            Left Peds



                                                                                                           0
                                                Bikes                                                                                 * Tuesday, October 19, 2010



                                                                                                0
            2




                                                                                                                                       Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
        Out




                                                                                                           Total
                                0




                                                                                                                                                         0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                         5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100



                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                    0                                  0000      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                       0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                       0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                       0300      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                       0400      1       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 14.8 100.0    24.6      -
                                                                                                                                       0500      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                       0600      3       0      0      0      1      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.0 100.0    23.5      -
                                                                                                                                       0700     65       0      0      2      3     18     26     14      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 78.5     26.4   30.6
                                                                                                                                       0800     27       0      0      2      3     11      6      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.4 70.4     24.5   30.2
                                                                                                                                       0900     13       0      0      1      1      2      3      3      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 27.7 69.2     28.4   35.8
                                                                                                                                       1000      9       1      0      0      0      0      3      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.3 88.9     27.5      -
                                                                                                                                       1100      9       0      0      0      0      4      2      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.3 77.8     27.9      -
                                                                                                                                       1200     10       0      0      0      0      2      4      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 70.0     29.3      -
                                                    Left           Thru Right Peds                                                     1300      5       0      0      0      0      0      3      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 100.0    28.6      -
                                                           1           8    0     0                                                    1400     19       0      0      0      0      2      9      8      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.9 100.0    28.5   31.3
                                                                                                                                       1500     38       0      3      2      2     10     10      8      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 60.5     25.3   32.0
                                                                                                                                       1600     12       0      0      1      0      2      6      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.9 75.0     27.6   31.8
                                                          17             9     26                                                      1700     26       0      0      1      3      8     10      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.0 69.2     25.1   29.3
                                                        Out           In    Total                                                      1800     11       0      0      1      1      6      2      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.7 81.8     24.5   26.6
                                                                   GRANT RD                                                            1900      9       0      0      2      2      3      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 13.6 55.6     21.3      -
                                                                                                                                       2000      3       0      0      1      0      1      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 13.6 66.7     25.1      -
                                                                                                                                       2100      4       0      0      0      0      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.8 100.0    25.5      -
                                                                                                                                       2200      2       0      0      0      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.0 100.0    27.8      -
                                                                                                                                       2300      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
                                                                                                                                      07-19    244       1      3     10     13     65     84     52     15      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 69.3     26.4   31.8
                                                                                                                                      06-22    263       1      3     13     16     72     88     53     16      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 68.8     26.2   31.5
                                                                                                                                      06-00    265       1      3     13     16     72     90     53     16      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 69.1     26.2   31.5
                                                                                                                                      00-00    266       1      3     13     16     73     90     53     16      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 69.2     26.2   31.5

                                                                                                                                      Peak step 7:00 (65) AM Peak step 7:00 (65) PM Peak step 15:00 (38)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-3463 Page 2                                                                                                                                CustomList-3464 Page 1

* Wednesday, October 20, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp                                                                 Traffic Data Service
                   0
                   5
                          5
                         10
                                10
                                15
                                       15
                                       20
                                              20
                                              25
                                                     25
                                                     30
                                                            30
                                                            35
                                                                   35
                                                                   40
                                                                          40
                                                                          45
                                                                                 45
                                                                                 50
                                                                                        50
                                                                                        55
                                                                                               55
                                                                                               60
                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                      65
                                                                                                             65
                                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                    70
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                          10    10            85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Speed Report
 0000      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0300      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -      Datasets:
 0400      1       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 14.1 100.0    24.0      -      Site:                    [1S] SB CARMEL TERRACE BETWEEN PORTLAND AVE & ALTAMEAD DR
 0500      2       0      0      0      0      1      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.1 100.0    27.9      -
 0600      5       0      0      0      0      0      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.2 100.0    27.2      -      Data type:               Axle sensors - Paired (Class/Speed/Count)
 0700     71       0      1      5      4     15     28     11      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.1 62.0     26.0   32.7
 0800     27       1      0      3      8      4      6      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 11.0 48.1     22.1   30.4      Profile:
 0900      5       0      0      0      1      1      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.7 100.0    23.0      -
 1000      7       0      0      0      2      2      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.2 85.7     24.3      -      Included classes:        1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
 1100      5       0      0      0      0      0      3      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 100.0    29.1      -      Speed range:             0 - 100 mph.
 1200     11       0      0      0      0      3      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 100.0    26.6   28.2
 1300      9       0      0      0      2      2      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 77.8     24.6      -      Direction:               South (bound)
 1400     18       0      0      0      1      4     10      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.0 88.9     26.6   29.3      Separation:              All - (Headway)
 1500     28       0      0      0      1      6     16      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 85.7     26.9   30.4
 1600     17       0      0      1      4      4      7      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.6 70.6     23.5   28.0
                                                                                                                                                      Name:                    Default Profile
 1700     23       0      0      1      1      6     10      2      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.1 73.9     26.9   32.7      Scheme:                  Vehicle classification (Scheme F)
 1800      7       0      0      1      1      1      2      1      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 15.9 57.1     26.7      -      Units:                   Non metric (ft, mi, ft/s, mph, lb, ton)
 1900      5       0      0      1      2      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 13.0 80.0     20.2      -
 2000      6       0      0      0      0      1      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.5 100.0    26.7      -
 2100      3       0      0      0      0      0      1      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 100.0    30.0      -      Column Legend:
 2200      3       0      0      0      0      0      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 100.0    28.9      -      0 [Time]                 24-hour time (0000 - 2359)
 2300      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.1 100.0    28.0      -
07-19    228       1      1     11     25     48     99     32     10      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 67.1     25.6   30.6      1 [Total]                Number in time step
06-22    247       1      1     12     27     50    111     34     10      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 68.0     25.6   30.6      2 [Vbin]                 Speed bin totals
06-00    251       1      1     12     27     50    114     35     10      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 68.1     25.6   30.6
00-00    254       1      1     12     27     52    114     36     10      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 68.1     25.6   30.6
                                                                                                                                                      3 [vPace]                Speed at start of pace
                                                                                                                                                      4 [Pace%]                Percent in pace
Peak step 7:00 (71) AM Peak step 7:00 (71) PM Peak step 15:00 (28)                                                                                    5 [Mean]                 Average speed
* Thursday, October 21, 2010
                                                                                                                                                      6 [Vpp]                  Percentile speed
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0000      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -      * Tuesday, October 19, 2010
 0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -       Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
 0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -                         0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
 0300      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -                         5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0400      1       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 14.1 100.0    24.1      -       0000      1       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 11.0 100.0    20.9      -
 0500      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 100.0    33.8      -       0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0600      4       0      0      0      0      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.1 100.0    25.5      -       0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0700     66       0      0      4      6     17     29      8      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 71.2     25.3   29.8       0300      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 100.0    35.0      -
 0800     34       0      1      5      6     11      5      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.4 52.9     22.5   30.2       0400      1       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 13.9 100.0    23.9      -
 0900      8       1      1      0      1      2      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.2 62.5     19.8      -       0500      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 100.0    34.1      -
 1000      5       0      0      0      0      1      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 100.0    28.5      -       0600      7       0      0      0      2      1      1      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 57.1     24.9      -
 1100     12       0      2      0      1      4      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.2 75.0     21.9   27.3       0700     44       0      0      2      2     12     22      5      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.0 81.8     25.6   29.1
 1200      9       0      0      0      1      3      2      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 77.8     26.9      -       0800     23       0      0      2      3      5     13      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.2 82.6     23.8   27.7
 1300      8       0      0      0      0      3      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.1 100.0    25.6      -       0900     13       0      0      1      2      2      5      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.9 76.9     25.4   30.4
 1400     20       0      0      1      1      8      8      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 80.0     25.2   28.9       1000      9       0      0      0      0      0      5      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.4 88.9     30.9      -
 1500     43       0      0      5      1     13     18      5      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.4 76.7     24.9   29.5       1100      4       0      0      0      0      0      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 100.0    29.7      -
 1600     19       0      0      1      2      4     10      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.2 73.7     25.3   28.6       1200      4       0      0      0      0      0      1      2      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 75.0     33.6      -
 1700     21       0      0      2      0      6      6      6      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 66.7     26.9   33.6       1300      9       0      0      0      0      2      2      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.3 77.8     29.2      -
 1800     17       0      0      1      1      3      8      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.0 76.5     26.1   30.6       1400     28       0      3      6      2      4      6      6      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.5 46.4     22.1   31.1
 1900      5       0      0      0      0      1      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.3 100.0    27.4      -       1500     40       0      8      2      1      6     14      9      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 60.0     22.9   31.3
 2000      5       0      0      1      0      0      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.3 80.0     24.2      -       1600     19       0      0      2      0      5      7      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.1 68.4     26.0   30.9
 2100      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.1 100.0    30.1      -       1700     19       0      0      1      3      3      6      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 63.2     25.8   31.5
 2200      2       0      0      0      0      0      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.9 100.0    27.0      -       1800     14       0      0      1      2      3      6      1      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0 19.2 64.3     25.6   29.1
 2300      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.8 100.0    32.9      -       1900     14       0      0      1      2      4      4      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 64.3     25.5   31.5
07-19    262       1      4     19     20     75    100     37      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.4 67.9     24.8   30.2       2000      2       0      0      1      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   1.8 50.0    20.9      -
06-22    277       1      4     20     20     78    109     39      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.4 69.0     24.9   30.0       2100      3       0      0      0      0      1      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.2 66.7     27.5      -
06-00    280       1      4     20     20     78    111     40      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.4 68.9     24.9   30.0       2200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
00-00    282       1      4     20     20     79    111     41      4      2      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.4 68.8     25.0   30.2       2300      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.3 100.0    28.4      -
                                                                                                                                                      07-19    226       0     11     17     15     42     89     45      4      2      1      0      0      0      0      0 21.9 64.2     25.1   31.1
Peak step 7:00 (66) AM Peak step 7:00 (66) PM Peak step 15:00 (43)                                                                                    06-22    252       0     11     19     19     48     96     51      5      2      1      0      0      0      0      0 21.9 63.9     25.1   31.1
                                                                                                                                                      06-00    253       0     11     19     19     48     97     51      5      2      1      0      0      0      0      0 21.9 64.0     25.1   31.1
* Grand Total                                                                                                                                         00-00    257       0     11     19     19     50     97     52      6      2      1      0      0      0      0      0 21.9 63.4     25.2   31.1
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85      Peak step 7:00 (44) AM Peak step 7:00 (44) PM Peak step 15:00 (40)
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
   --    802       3      8     45     63    204    315    130     30      3      1      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 67.8     25.6   30.9

In profile:       Vehicles = 802 / 1735 (46.22%)
                                                                                                                             CustomList-3464 Page 2

* Wednesday, October 20, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0000      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0300      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.7 100.0    35.7      -
 0400      1       0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 13.9 100.0    23.8      -
 0500      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.2 100.0    29.3      -
 0600      4       0      0      0      1      1      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.5 75.0     25.2      -
 0700     41       0      0      4      2     13     16      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 73.2     24.7   29.3
 0800     21       0      0      1      0      3     13      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.3 85.7     26.4   30.0
 0900      8       0      0      0      0      0      5      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.5 87.5     29.2      -
 1000      8       1      0      0      0      0      3      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 87.5     26.9      -
 1100     12       0      0      0      1      2      6      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 91.7     27.4   30.0
 1200     12       0      0      0      0      3      5      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.4 91.7     27.7   31.3
 1300      9       0      1      1      0      2      2      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.7 55.6     23.8      -
 1400     18       0      0      7      2      2      3      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   9.6 50.0    21.0   30.4
 1500     32       0      0      7      2      5     12      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 68.8     24.3   30.9
 1600     28       0      0      6      0      6      7      9      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 67.9     25.1   31.5
 1700     15       0      1      0      0      5      4      4      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.4 80.0     26.2   30.2
 1800     16       0      0      1      1      2      5      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25.1 75.0     27.0   32.2
 1900      5       0      0      0      0      3      1      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.3 80.0     26.9      -
 2000      4       0      0      0      0      0      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 100.0    30.2      -
 2100      2       0      0      0      1      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.8 100.0    22.7      -
 2200      2       0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 16.3 100.0    25.3      -
 2300      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
07-19    220       1      2     27      8     43     81     53      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 68.6     25.3   31.3
06-22    235       1      2     27     10     47     86     56      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 68.5     25.4   31.3
06-00    237       1      2     27     10     48     87     56      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 68.8     25.4   31.3
00-00    240       1      2     27     10     49     88     56      7      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 22.6 68.8     25.5   31.3

Peak step 7:00 (41) AM Peak step 7:00 (41) PM Peak step 15:00 (32)

* Thursday, October 21, 2010
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
 0000      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0100      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0200      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0300      1       0      0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.5 100.0    33.5      -
 0400      1       0      0      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 15.9 100.0    25.9      -
 0500      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     -     -      -      -
 0600      5       0      0      0      0      2      2      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.5 100.0    26.6      -
 0700     43       0      0      1      4      8     23      5      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.0 76.7     26.1   30.4
 0800     29       0      1      2      1      6     12      5      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.0 69.0     26.0   32.0
 0900     14       0      0      1      1      5      3      2      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.2 64.3     26.1   33.8
 1000      5       0      0      0      0      0      2      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 24.2 100.0    30.6      -
 1100      9       0      1      0      0      1      3      4      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 23.7 77.8     26.3      -
 1200     12       0      0      1      0      5      2      3      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.8 66.7     26.3   32.9
 1300     13       0      0      2      0      3      7      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 18.6 76.9     24.6   28.4
 1400     18       0      3      5      2      3      3      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   3.1 44.4    18.7   28.4
 1500     34       0      1      6      0      9     13      5      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.4 67.6     23.3   29.8
 1600     19       0      0      0      1      7      6      3      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.3 73.7     27.2   32.2
 1700     18       0      0      2      1      5      7      3      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 17.2 72.2     24.5   27.1
 1800     17       0      1      2      2      2      8      2      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 20.6 70.6     23.8   29.5
 1900     10       0      0      2      0      2      5      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 19.7 70.0     24.2      -
 2000      3       0      0      1      0      0      0      0      1      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 31.1 66.7     30.2      -
 2100      2       0      0      1      0      0      0      1      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   2.9 50.0    22.6      -
07-19    231       0      7     22     12     54     89     37     10      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.0 64.1     24.9   31.1
06-22    251       0      7     26     12     58     96     40     11      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.5 63.3     25.0   31.1
06-00    251       0      7     26     12     58     96     40     11      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.5 63.3     25.0   31.1
00-00    253       0      7     26     12     58     97     41     11      1      0      0      0      0      0      0 21.5 63.2     25.0   31.3

Peak step 7:00 (43) AM Peak step 7:00 (43) PM Peak step 15:00 (34)

* Grand Total
 Time   Total   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin   Vbin vPace Pace%   Mean    Vpp
                   0      5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    10    10            85
                   5     10     15     20     25     30     35     40     45     50     55     60     65     70    100
   --    750       1     20     72     41    157    282    149     24      3      1      0      0      0      0      0 21.9 64.0     25.2   31.3

In profile:       Vehicles = 750 / 1735 (43.23%)
         ATTACHMENT B
Seasonal Traffic Variation Summary
! "
                            !"#
$   %
        &   "

        !           "#$%% &$%%'




                            !"#
$   %
        &   "

                !         " $%% ($%%'




                            !"#
$   %
        &   "

        !           "($%% )$%%'




                            !"#
$   %
        &   "
               ATTACHMENT C
            Community Input Summary


    Kick-Off Meeting Sign-in Sheet and Summary of Discussion
        June 15, 2010 City Council Meeting Input Summary
September 13, 2010 Los Altos School Board Meeting Input Summary
                                                                                                                                                           To St.
                                                                                                                                                                         




                                                                                                                                                                                   Oakhurst
                                                                                                                                                          Francis




                                                                                                                                                                                   Avenue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             General observations:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      South Drive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              · More north-south vehicle capacity needed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              · Consider sidewalks and traffic signals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              · This area has many schools and El Camino
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Hospital as key employment generator                                                                     Signals on Grant coordinated:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           · Oak, Covington through Los Altos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           · North of Covington coordinated




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Eastwood Place
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             through Mountain View

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Grant Road signal progression and
                                                                                                                                                                                    Alegre Avenue                                                                                                                                              traffic flow improvents needed




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Damian Way
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         tc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            he
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ha




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ve
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ym
                                                                                                                                         Covington/Miramonte




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            an
                Covington Road                                                                                                    intersection is key constraint                                                                                                                                                   Oak Preschool




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Pla
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Access




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ce
                                                                                                                                                                                       Eastwood and Muir Way are                                                Covington Road
                                                                                                                                Barbara (crossing-guard) good                                                                                                                                                                                 Pumpkin Patch (54 new homes
                                                                                                                                                                                          currently heavily used for
                                                                                                                                 at batching students crossing                                                                                                                                                                              approved). Plans to reconfigure at
                                                                                                                                                                                     access for pedestrian/bicycles
                                                                                                                                        Covington/Miramonte                                                                                                                                                                                 Covington/Grant, including 4th leg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         e
                                                                                                                                                                                    L om                                              iv                                                                                                     of Covington through to new site
                                                                                                                                                                                   Cou a Prie                                      Dr
                                                                                                                                                                                       rt     ta                            o od
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        tw                                                                                                 Blach
                                                                                                                                 Stanley Avenue                                                                        s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ea                       Muir Way                                                                  Intermediate                    Grant Road congestion
                                                               Seena Avenue
Springer Road




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          School
                                                                                     Golden Way
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       causes traffic diversion
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Since Eastwood right-turn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           was restricted, increase in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Consider raised curb at        Northbound left-turn from Grant at
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Carmel/Altamead traffic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             corner of Carmel/Altamead      Covington exceeds pocket length

                                    Edge Lane                                                              Russel Avenue

                                                                                                                                                                                                               Eastwood/Miramonte: consider                                                                                          Altamead Drive
                                                                                                                                                                                                               turning enhancements, and
                                                                                                                                                                                                               improved separation through curve
                                                                                                                           Pedestrian/bicycles jumping out of
                                                              Pathway




                                                                                                                           cars while in queue on Miramonte                                                                                                                                                           Past drop-off concerns on Carmel/Altamead:            200 students
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Current parking for Blach                                                kids dropped off, parents doing U-turns, and         bike to MVHS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Carmel Terrace
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 teachers is restricted                                               turn around in neighbors driveways
                                                Berry Drive




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Grant Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To Mountain View




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                Miramonte Avenue
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Miramonte                         High School




                                                                                                                                                                                          Runnymead Drive




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Buckingham Drive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                School
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (private)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Recent injury bike collision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Possible Class I bike path on           on Grant in May 2010A
                                                                              Golden Way




                                                  Loyola                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          the west side of Carmel Terrace
                                                Elementary
                                                  School



                                                                                                                                                                                                            Portland Avenue


                                                                                                  Altos Oak Drive
        City of Los Altos




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Oakhurst
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Avenue
        Blach School Neighborhood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Since Carmel/Altamead drop-off restrictions,
        Traffic Study
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          parents drop-off on Portland
        June 2010



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Feedback from Stakeholder Kick-Off Meeting (June 2, 2010)
                                                Attachment C 
                                                    Special Meeting of the Los Altos City Council ­ June 15, 2010 
Blach School Neighborhood Traffic Study  
Los Altos High School Eagle Theater 

Public Hearing  
    · Harwell/Hawkins Neighborhood Group: Rear drop off is a key issue 
    · 1108 Covington Road 
             o The more access points at the school, the better 
             o Reduce speeds on Covington  
             o Reduce through traffic on Covington 
             o Increase visibility of stop sign at Covington/Miramonte 
    · Chris Tai ­ crossing guard at Portland/Carmel, October 2008 
             o Speeds on Portland: High school students (MVHS, St. Francis), Parents driving to schools 
             o Raised crosswalk: Drivers speed right up to Portland/Carmel 
                      One intersection east and west a concern 
    · Andy Hawryluk ­ Carmel/Altamead Neighborhood Association (CANA) 
             o Teenagers ­ cycling behavior is concerning 
             o Reduce vehicle traffic on Safe Routes to Schools 
             o Enforcement directed at Covington/Miramonte 
    · Gene Cousins ­ Thatcher (Mountain View) 
             o Ped/bike activity due to new young families 
             o Keep barrier in place 
    · Jorge ­ Covington/Miramonte 
             o Look at all schools, neighborhood in greater context 
             o Commuter cutthrough from SR 85, to Grant, to Miramonte  
    · Vivianna Bardina ­ global solution 
             o Commuter traffic/cut through 
             o Safety ­ ped/bike conflicts with vehicles 
             o Open all entrances for dropoff 
    · Leo Tardiano ­ no traffic signal at Covington/Miramonte 
             o More visibility (flashing crosswalk on San Antonio, e.g.) 
             o Direct traffic enforcement 
             o Bicycle traffic on Miramonte ­ safety (no rightturn pocket at Covington/Miramonte) 
    · Lynn ­ east side of Covington Road 
             o Permanente Flood Control Project (to start June 2011) 
             o 5,000 ­ 7,000 truckloads of construction earthwork 
    · Steven Ivy ­ 1020 Loma Prieta 
             o No traffic signal at Covington/Miramonte 
             o Kids on Loma Prieta (6) 
             o Property encroaching into street, pushes kids into street, reduces safety 
    · Rich ­ 1210 Carmel/Altamead 
             o Miramonte Multipurpose room  
             o Review back into 1990s ­ traffic studies 
             o Portables at Blach were the start of traffic issues on Altamead 
             o New bike paths needed (not lanes) 
    · Michael ­ Los Altos  
             o Drives children to school (Elem and Blach Intermediate) 
             o Restricting access is causing congestion and making unsafe for children  
    · Karen VanDevanter ­ Blach Teacher 
             o Open all 3 entrances to drop off 
             o Parking in rear for teachers 
             o Put it back the way it was 
             o City Council member measured # paces difference from front lot to class, and rear to class ­ 100
                 125 paces more from front) 

Page 1 of 4
                                                Attachment C 
                                                    Special Meeting of the Los Altos City Council ­ June 15, 2010 
Blach School Neighborhood Traffic Study  
Los Altos High School Eagle Theater 

    ·   Carl Zimmerman ­ Oak/Grant 
              o All public routes that provide access to schools should be open for drop off 
              o Signal ­ either way ­ minimal improvement 
    ·   Ilias Absock ­ Carmel at Blach (North side) 
              o Ok with drop off, teacher parking on Carmel/Altamead 
              o Raised crosswalk at Carmel/Altamead 
              o Global approach (Grant Road traffic) 
    ·   William ­ Raised crosswalk on Miramonte/Covington 
              o Extension of Covington @ Levin Housing (Mountain View project) 
              o Increase in traffic 2 years 
              o Stagger school start times 
              o Opposed to signal ­ drivers speed to get through lights 
    ·   Carol Commendatore ­ Camel Terrace 
              o Last 45 years, traffic increase 
              o Bike/ped safety the priority (kids dart between cars) 
              o 9/2009 ­ counted 136 peds/bikes towards Blach between 7:45 ­ 8:15 
              o 2/2010 ­ counted 53 peds/bikes and 32 cars towards Blach between 7:45 ­ 8:15 
    ·   Dave McNulty ­ 1218 Carmel Terrace 
              o Exhibit 2, location 9 does not capture traffic from Miramonte School drop off that enters and 
                  exits from Carmel Terrace 
              o Key ­ student safety in neighborhood 
              o Do queues reduce student safety? 
    ·   Vivian McNulty ­ 1218 Carmel Terrace  
              o Keep signs on Carmel 
              o Reengineer traffic on through streets, don't force it on to local streets  
              o Front entrance was recently reengineered to improve Blach drop off 
    ·   Jack McNell ­ Thatcher 
              o Keep closed 
              o Is  a key connection to El Camino Hospital 
              o South Drive was supposed to connect to Miramonte Drive and never did 
    ·   Andy ­ Eastwood Place 
              o Son attends Blach ­ commute referred to as "the gauntlet" 
              o Reopen all drop off points 
              o Northbound drivers cut into the bike lane 
    ·   Marcia Crohn ­ Teacher at Blach  
              o Reopen rear drop off. 
              o School projections for growth 
              o AltameadCarmel ­ could create oneway streets 
              o Raised crosswalks/vertical devices 
    ·   Sharon Moerner ­ Los Altos resident and Blach teacher 
              o Reopen rear entrance 
              o Collision data 
    ·   Richard ­ nope 
    ·   Blane Garst ­ Miramonte at Eastwood 
              o Continued rightturn at Eastwood ­ mostly commuters 
              o OK with allowing rightturn, but wants speeds managed through speed humps (e.g.), rightturn 
                  acceleration lane 
    ·   Peggy Bumante ­ closure forcing traffic aggressive 
              o Bike safety course for students (required) 
    ·   Roger ­ 953 Russell, 30 years, 2 son 

Page 2 of 4
                                              Attachment C 
                                                  Special Meeting of the Los Altos City Council ­ June 15, 2010 
Blach School Neighborhood Traffic Study  
Los Altos High School Eagle Theater 

              o Driving children to school the issue 
              o Opposed to signal at Covington/Miramonte (does not fit in rural neighborhood) 
    ·   Mark ­ Eastwood/Miramonte 
              o Safety ­ kids don't look when crossing Eastwood, northbound rightturns an issue 
              o Quality of life, noise, speeding  
    ·   Ellie Sighari ­ Covington Court 
              o Oppose traffic signal for reasons: 
                        Safety of students 
                        Exiting court in the morning  
                        Pick up at Covington Court 
    ·   Hank ­ 1121 Covington, across from Blach 
              o This is a big problem? How to solve? 
              o Blind driveways on Covington "Caution blind driveways ahead" 
    ·   Kathy Martina ­ Covington Grant southbound rightturn an issue 
    ·   Louis Lowell ­ Yielding at crosswalk on Covington at Thatcher 
    ·   Rob Lurch ­ Thatcher barrier 
    ·   Dale Scott ­ Hayman Place 
              o Winter times, no bicyclists 
              o Closure in rear no serving whole school 
              o Queue in school drop off area in front 
              o St. Francis High School 
    ·   Steven Carmen ­ Reopen Eastwood and Carmel 
              o Separate peds, bikes, vehicles 
              o Sidewalks, signals, and bike paths 
              o Support signal at Covington/Miramonte, Portland/Grant 
              o Sidewalk is missing on Portland 
              o Oak between Grant and six houses gone 
    ·   Deb Galldas ­ Covington/Springer  
              o Biking to school, education from Bill Crook 
              o Covington/Miramonte ­ the gauntlet 
              o Support closure of Eastwood 
    ·   Judy ­ 
              o Grant/Oak is unsafe 
              o Oakhurst &? at Portland 
              o No signals 
    ·   Ed Sadhi ­ 1010 Loma Prieta. Oppose closure of Carmel/Eastwood. Exacerbates Covington/Miramonte 
        traffic. 
              o Miramonte speeds 
              o No signal 
    ·   Linda S ­ 736 Brentwood Place. Reopen Carmel and Eastwood 
              o Praise for crossing guards 
    ·   Ron ­ Eastwood Drive. Not volume, reduce speeds. Double yellow on Eastwood 
              o If sign (rightturn restriction) is removed, must address speed 
    ·   Tallus Borak ­ 1011 Loma Prieta 
              o No signal   speed  
              o Induced demand ­ Covington Extension to Levin Housing (Longterm goal) 
    ·   Neil Tuck ­ 1074 Eastwood Court 
              o Dangerous for pedestrians, visibility/speed. 
              o Sidewalks on Eastwood, raised crosswalks, bike paths 
    ·   Bill Shephard ­ 1457 Miramonte 

Page 3 of 4
                                                Attachment C 
                                                    Special Meeting of the Los Altos City Council ­ June 15, 2010 
Blach School Neighborhood Traffic Study  
Los Altos High School Eagle Theater 

            o Congestion at Covington/Miramonte 
            o Cablehung signal ok 
            o Permanente Creek easement for Class I path 
    ·   Sharon Greenstein ­ Covington/Golden. 
            o Parent of Loyola Elem student 
            o Bikes ­ wrong way riding. 
            o Can't get out of driveway 
    ·   Pat Major ­ 940 Russell 
            o Opposes closures at Carmel and Eastwood 
            o Opposes traffic signal ­ induced demand 
    ·   John Walker ­ Miramonte/Covington 
            o Opposes signal due to speed increases 
            o Other times not AM ­ not an issue at Covington/Miramonte 
            o Visibility of stop sign for northbound Miramonte traffic poor 
            o If better walk/bike environment created, less drivers would be on the road 
    ·   Mark Goines ­ member of Los Altos school board 
            o Systematic solution: traffic, bike safety, sidewalks, reduced speeds 
            o Permanente Creek easement for path 
            o Possible (10%) chance of school population doubling 
            o Consider carpooling, busing to schools from higher density areas 
                      Possibly through Packard Foundation (or other) grant sources 
            o Permanente Flood Project meeting June 17th at Mountain View, 1st in a series of meetings 
                      No MOU yet 
 
Close Public Hearing 
 
 
 




Page 4 of 4
                                                 Attachment C 
                                                FollowUp Correspondence from Council Meeting ­ June 15, 2010 
Blach School Neighborhood Traffic Study  

    ·   Kathy Englar: June 17, 2010 
            o Congestion at Miramonte/Covington 
            o Open Carmel for dropoff 
            o Miramonte midblock drop off issues 
    ·   Marcie Caccamo: June 10, 2010 
            o Reverse ban on dropoffs at Carmel/Altamead 
            o Safety concerns on Covington entrance, including Grant/Covington leftturn 
            o Privatization of Carmel/Altamead 
    ·   Tracy Hovda:  June 10, 2010 
            o Open Carmel for dropoff 
    ·   Deb Gatta: June 9, 2010 
            o Former crossing guard for Carmel/Portland 
            o Can see both sides 
            o Open Carmel for dropoff 
    ·   Lauren Ward: June 9, 2010 
            o Remove Eastwood restriction  
            o Open Carmel for dropoff 
    ·   LaRita and Jim Desimpel: June 9, 2010 
            o Open Carmel for dropoff, because: 
                       City Traffic Commission advises against it 
                       Grant and Miramonte traffic congestion 
                       Carmel Terrace residents safety concerns not justified 
                       Establishes a precedent 
                       Teacher parking should be provided 
                       Community support for access/dropoff  
    ·   Kevin Schindler: June 9, 2010 
            o Blach School alumni (freshman at MVHS) 
            o Allow teacher parking in rear 
            o Signal at Covington/Miramonte 
    ·   Melody Malachowsky: June 9, 2010 
            o Open Carmel for dropoff 
            o No signal at Covington/Miramonte 
    ·   Clare Hubel: June 9, 2010 
            o Son bikes to Blach 
            o Open Carmel for dropoff 
            o Improve congestion at Covington/Miramonte, and safety for all students  
    ·   Tanya Rowe: June 8, 2010 
            o Open Carmel for dropoff 
            o Improve congestion on Covington 
    ·   Nancy Martin: June 8, 2010 
            o Flatten raised crosswalk at Portland/Carmel 
            o Open Carmel for dropoff, with teacher supervision\ 
    ·   Tina Nano: June 8, 2010 
            o Blach parents could receive permits to drive through Eastwood 
            o Used Carmel to drop of children when at Blach ­ crossing was not particularly safe with traffic 
    ·   Rani Roley: June 8, 2010 
            o Keep Carmel/Altamead no stopping zone 
            o Alternative ­ speed bump on Altamead just east of Carmel 
    ·   Jennifer Hartney: June 17, 2010 
            o Lisa Court resident 
            o Observed Blach student drop off on Portland and Oakhurst 

Page 1 of 3
                                                 Attachment C 
                                                FollowUp Correspondence from Council Meeting ­ June 15, 2010 
Blach School Neighborhood Traffic Study  

    ·   City Fitz: June 17, 2010 
             o Parent of MVHS student  
             o Nearmiss on Covington Road at bridge just east of Miramonte 
             o Drive through Carmel/Altamead on way to MVHS 
             o Recommendations: 
                        Carmel/Altamead open for dropoff 
                        Install speed humps on Portland, Carmel, Atlamead, Edgewood (Eastwood*), and 
                            Covington 
                        Drop off zones on Carmel and Altamead near the crosswalk/Lintersection 
                        No parking in dropoff 7:309:15am 
                        Open Edgewood (Eastwood*) ­ drivers northbound on Miramonte do uturn to make 
                            left onto Eastwood 
    ·   Dave McNulty:  June 18, 2010 
             o Altamead traffic count should be placed west of Miramonte School, and additional count on 
                   Carmel needed 
             o May 20th data included effects of Disneyland field trip for music and drama students (est. 225 
                   students) 
             o Wait time at Covington/Miramonte 
             o Concerns with stakeholder meeting on June 2 
    ·   Vivian McNulty: June 20, 2010 
             o February 4, 2008 video on conditions at Carmel/Altamead (before no stopping restrictions) 
    ·   Andy Hawryluk: June 19, 2010 
             o Offered assistance and meeting to discuss traffic issues 
    ·   Carol Commendatore: June 22, 2010 
             o Provided followup data from June 15th meeting during public comment 
             o Tues, 9/30/2009 (clear): 
                        136/90 vehicles (nb/sb) 
                        68 bikes nb 
                        8 pedestrians nb 
             o Tues, 2/19/2010 (rainy): 
                        53/32 vehicles nb/sb 
                        6 bikes nb 
                        19 pedestrians nb 
             o Keep signs up 
             o Signalize Miramonte/Covington 
             o Speed humps on Carmel/Altamead 
             o Improve Grant Road traffic flow 
    ·   James Lender and Yoling Ma: June 23, 2010 
             o Muir Way residents 
             o Maintain Muir as bikefriendly entrance 
             o Some parents/teachers access school from Muir ­ ok as long as speeds are managed 
             o Too many drivers on cell phones 
             o Keep rightturn restriction from Miramonte to Eastwood, or 
                        Lower Muir speed limit to 10mph 
                        Install speed bumps on Muir 
                        Prohibit parking in culdesac on Muir to provide turnaround 
    ·   Andy Hawryluk: July 11, 2010 
             o Prioritize student safety 
             o Removal of no stopping signs creates drop off zone on city property 
             o Improve safety of all roads  
             o Collect data for all seasons 

Page 2 of 3
                                                  Attachment C 
                                                 FollowUp Correspondence from Council Meeting ­ June 15, 2010 
Blach School Neighborhood Traffic Study  

              o  Make incremental changes and monitor results 
              o  Traffic at Covington/Miramonte is same as ten years ago 
                       Require students to walk bikes along sidewalks as they enter Blach from Covington 
             o Place police officer at Covington/Miramonte for manual control 
                       Alternatively supports a signal 
             o Work with LASD to remedy teacher parking situation 
             o Does not support dropoff area near Carmel/Altamead intersection 
    ·   Martha DeBoni: July 12, 2010 
             o Carmel and Altamead are between two schools ­ Blach and Miramonte 
             o All Blach students should access from Covington, but willing to accept foot and bicycle traffic, so 
                 long as vehicles use front entry 
             o Keep no stopping restrictions  
    ·   Linda, Altamead Drive resident: July 27, 2010 
             o Keep no stopping restrictions 
             o Blach staff should park in Blach parking lot 
             o Parents and students should access from Covington 
    ·   Karl Zimmerman, August 17, 2010 
             o Eastwood and CANA restrictions do not improve safety 
             o Should open Eastwood and Carmel/Altamead 
 




Page 3 of 3
                                            CITY OF LOS ALTOS
                                     PETITION FOR TRAFFIC MITIGATION
                                      DATESUBMITTED:~
               We, the undersigned, are residents of properties bordering Eastwood Drive,
               Eastwood Court and Muir Way.

               The City of Los Altos installed a "No Right Turn" sign on Miramonte at the
               intersection of Eastwood Drive, in the Spring of 2005. This sign is intended to
               protect a "Safe Route to School" from the hours of 7:00 - 10:00 AM Monday through
               Friday. This calming measure was in response to a petition submitted by the same
               neighborhood. The corner is a blind turn and drivers tend to round the curve at high
               speeds, causing a danger to students and residents. Many students use Eastwood
               Drive as a walking or biking route, often to the bike rack located at the end of Muir
               Way. Since the installation of the "No Right Turn" signs, the traffic on these back
               streets has become a safer environment for all residents and commuting students.

               We hereby request that the City of Los Altos leave the "No Right Turn" signs in
               place on Miramonte.


               Name (signature)                          Address                     Comments

I
                                                U D& \(¡¿, luOß~0~ ~~
(l
                                                ( I c '8 Múi v- W(l'( i i J\ IJ/tu
-.
j
                                               ~l::l~~tM:
L¡


.)             ~'                               11lJ Nt v~ /, ,Ms
    çø




    (;
         1-
               ~~..                              i \
                                                \ o9R- \'Vù;, L.~s. AiFç
                                                 IC r (1 Vi r W~ CøAl
                                                 I D1~ Mu;ý NO.. ¿,sf¡ Ik
9
                                                 (01l fY(j¡'( N'l,' Lcn A:-l.
10
                                                 IOJ:2 Milir N¿ £0.5 /t/k-
     II                                           J 0,;5 Hvi ¡¿ iA'i
     /~                                          lObl, /1U f(j ßr 5
         /3                                        iDfd jfWY (jtj~-I!k
         1L)                                      IDbr f1Lt(l- WM¡, ~ ~(tv5
                                     CITY OF LOS ALTOS
                              PETITION FOR TRAFFIC MITIGATION
                               DATESUBMITTED:~
        We, the undersigned, are residents of properties bordering Eastwood Drive,
        Eastwood Court and Muir Way.

        The City of Los Altos installed a "No Right Turn" sign on Miramonte at the
        intersection of Eastwood Drive, in the Spring of 2005. This sign is intended to
        protect a "Safe Route to School" from the hours of 7:00 - 10:00 AM Monday through
        Friday. This calming measure was in response to a petition submitted by the same
        neighborhood. The corner is a blind turn and drivers tend to round the curve at high
        speeds, causing a danger to students and residents. Many students use Eastwood
        Drive as a walking or biking route, often to the bike rack located at the end of Muir
        Way. Since the installation of the "No Right Turn" signs, the traffc on these back
        streets has become a safer environment for all residents and commuting students.

        We hereby request that the City of Los Altos leave the "No Right Turn" signs in
        place on Miramonte.


        Name (signature)                          Address                     Comments

IS
        l) thAd Cø                          1G7tf~ or
Ii"

1+      ~ßJ~
        ~ F~çii
        i~y d?~
                                           10 11- £~IÑJ er
                                          jo?-l G~oI
                                          11:7-'1 ~
                                                                   CA
                                                                                -
                                                                               r-
                                                                               --
        ~ ~
/0                                                                CÅ-
l'j
                                          /tJ K'~ ¡;ilt9tPd' Cl
                                                                                -
Jo
 'di
                                                 Ø~1iuad (/:
                                           L (j~1 ¡: /l ,7í-- f'¿)1: CT

                                           J \J C)"C 2" o.u. L '\
                                                                                -
-a3
                                          / ò ?7) £ C( 5 fClDO) el-
¿¡ '-
                                          j 0 g 1_~Vl S11~rm~Lt/t
 ~'5MlL~                                 (flge; Eaç1w~+-
                                                                                    r-
                                      CITY OF LOS ALTOS
                              PETITION FOR TRAFFIC MITIGATION
                               DATE SUBMITTED: ~ 0
        We, the undersigned, are residents of properties bordering Eastwood Drive,
        Eastwood Court and Muir Way.

        The City of Los Altos installed a "No Right Turn" sign on Miramonte at the
        intersection of Eastwood Drive, in the Spring of 2005. This sign is intended to
        protect a "Safe Route to School" from the hours of 7:00 - 10:00 AM Monday through
        Friday. This calming measure was in response to a petition submitted by the same
        neighborhood. The corner is a blind turn and drivers tend to round the curve at high
        speeds, causing a danger to students and residents. Many students use Eastwood
        Drive as a walking or biking route, often to the bike rack located at the end of Muir
        Way. Since the installation of the "No Right Turn" signs, the traffic on these back
        streets has become a safer environment for all residents and commuting students.

        We hereby request that the City of Los Altos leave the "No Right Turn" signs in
        place on Miramonte.




() (,
        d~
        Name (signature)


        ltMD l41&M"V
                                                  Address


                                           ki ~ e!/d /J
                                                                              Comments


                                                                            k NT ~1G;Y ,

 ';l                                       \0t,1. (~.,i, wooc\ 0..          !(f.p Q.)Clst, fl~ s'S" (
                                                  .-
;:/5

a.q
        f¿~/¡:ß                          lcP fì5 t:~s'¡~'p,.                ~p~,¡',? v -'?-
                                                                                      S"?

                                           lO~ i=~.onol Dv-.                 P1e"'c- ~e.l Çi~V) '.
 30                                       I(jC~ b-sf..noc1) v-              11 lø.)t /.t (2(1 '77/t,ØJ
  31                                       NJ ll7 11lflf"""l1,p 9"l            ..,     .. ..
3d.                                        10 tA Úf,fwnur Dr               fpd~ l\Ú¡~ 5i~ k
33                                         l¡ n :Gst.a,,1 Jh _              ~ 5'!Ctl yu~ "
34                                         I~ ~ ? nl(l,no Pv
35
Ó0                      ~nlil(
                                           lO7,1. J(~l.t ~
                                           i C):¡9 J:~sT\. QO d- L+
                                                                            ~
                                                                            ll7 Ç( 0A fltn-



                                                                            ~)t."ISl.
                                      CITY OF LOS ALTOS
                               PETITION FOR TRAFFIC MITIGATION
                                DATE SUBMITTED: ~O) 0
         We, the undersigned, are residents of properties bordering Eastwood Drive,
         Eastwood Court and Muir Way.

         The City of Los Altos installed a "No Right Turn" sign on Miramonte at the
         intersection of Eastwood Drive, in the Spring of 2005. This sign is intended to
         protect a "Safe Route to School" from the hours of 7:00 - 10:00 AM Monday through
         Friday. This calming measure was in response to a petition submitted by the same
         neighborhood. The corner is a blind turn and drivers tend to round the curve at high
         speeds, causing a danger to students and residents. Many students use Eastwood
         Drive as a walking or biking route, often to the bike rack located at the end of Muir
         Way. Since the installation of the "No Right Turn" signs, the traffc on these back
         streets has become a safer environment for all residents and commuting students.

         We hereby request that the City of Los Altos leave the "No Right Turn" signs in
         place on Miramonte.


                                                   Address                     Comments

 -31                                        I~C;L &,+"../ Dt-f~
                                                                                 vi
                                                                                ~¡¿~'1 Irl~, c,M-J,!

8i
3 'I
                                            10 S-ç ~'4i.w..(),,~v:
                                                                             ~~t~~l~             i;~w.l+ ~
                                           Jo55 -Fadwnr) J)r
                                                                             '1ji:S l"P('~"aj-t". s&l!liy
 i.()
                                           I oS" ¡ ~a .sTW()()f) DJ          á1k:1 is Q~ii-inouJ
  4(                                                                         Åf"~ r~ ~(Ø
                                            II? ,,'1 6A.'J(aWO D.e            Si Go'; l. tf\.
                                                                              E,'i'n na~ ~l ¡ied. a '3,ea-T
4';                                          1(\2.'1 Fa.:'h..,,,,,l-lr.      le~\
 4~                                         /02.7 ~l.--ODJ t)r-
                                                                             '\ ' I I
 4'1
  '-5
                                            lotb ç.(J:.rrd 'l¡..
                                             i (0 ~~~k ~l'., D'C
                                                                             ~
                                                                             -
                                                                            c.~J.J(\l, ~ ¿ridex
  '-fi
                                           ~sC-~~C:
                 ~    \~~                    1013 ¿~..o..C!
                                            CITY OF LOS ALTOS
                                  PETITION FOR TRAFIC MITIGATION
                                   DATESUBMITTED:~IO
            We, the undersigned, are residents of properties bordering Eastwood Drive,
            Eastwood Court and Muir Way.

            The City of Los Altos installed a "No Right Turn" sign on Miramonte at the
            intersection of Eastwood Drive, in the Spring of 2005. This sign is intended to
            protect a "Safe Route to School" from the hours of 7:00 - 10:00 AM Monday through
            Friday. This calming measure was in response to a petition submitted by the same
            neighborhood. The corner is a blind turn and drivers tend to round the curve at high
            speeds, causing a danger to students and residents. Many students use Eastwood
            Drive as a walking or biking route, often to the bike rack located at the end of Muir
            Way. Since the installation of the "No Right Turn" signs, the traffic on these back
            streets has become a safer environment for all residents and commuting students.

            We hereby request that the City of Los Altos leave the "No Right Turn" signs in
            place on Miramonte.


            Name (signature)                          Address                     Comments

    L¡ ~


     i- 9
            q~~
             ßøìL 7n. ¡('b
                                               /OIí5 ¿abtwooc Dc
                                                /018 QJ,P-DocI bí
     So                                                                              ;V~/
            /ldI t! ~
             ¿, )nc ft?                       YIPNZ- b6sJ !VÒ;:,P P..
    51

             /7~ /JÆi
                                              /¡Ç7ó d4i~$p.
    Sd.
                                             ,lô "7 c/ ¿S _ ;lNI q
    53       0; ()no. '4idt'l1                 / o9't &S-htJ C f-,
\
    5'1     ~K~~A/                             \ oo¡ g ft\A 1nòd Ct-,
                                                                                 "Dó':T \
             ~+v ~
)   S5                                          \ oûC¡ fnc;hAI(l~ IT.                 c.ho-'ê'J ,
)

     5(,
            lbl 7;(\    q.     Kn ix~r

                                               JO \t 4   f v..stvd C+.
     - -i
     - ,
    'ì _.    JJ-l~ /u)ì'-                      I 0 ~ 1 ~ttl,ltJ cV-
                                                    CITY OF LOS ALTOS
                                            PETITION FOR TRAFFIC MITIGATION
                                             DATE SUBMITTED: ~.gr dO i n

       We, the undersigned, are residents of properties bordering Eastwood Drive,
       Eastwood Court and Muir Way.

       The City of Los Altos installed a "No Right Turn" sign on Miramonte at the
       intersection of Eastwood Drive, in the Spring of 2005. This sign is intended to
       protect a "Safe Route to School" from the hours of 7:00 - 10:00 AM Monday through
       Friday. This calming measure was in response to a petition submitted by the same
       neighborhood. The corner is a blind turn and drivers tend to round the curve at high
       speeds, causing a danger to students and residents. Many students use Eastwood
       Drive as a walking or biking route, often to the bike rack located at the end of Muir
       Way. Since the installation of the "No Right Turn" signs, the traffic on these back
       streets has become a safer environment for all residents and commuting students.

       We hereby request that the City of               Los Altos leave the "No Right Turn" signs in
       place on Miramonte.


       Name (signature)                                     Address                   Comments

S'ti                                                    1054 J:JdtJJÁ of
       C:,~ \.. -i Ivl()~..",wv t£tpl\
0~'
      ATTACHMENT D
Level of Service Calculations
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
1: Covington Rd. & Miramonte Ave.                                                                    12/17/2010



Movement                   EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL    WBT    WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL    SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Stop                   Stop                 Stop                 Stop
Volume (vph)                 92      159      21      23    123     47     13    275     75     94    174     23
Peak Hour Factor           0.86     0.86    0.86    0.86   0.86   0.86   0.86   0.86   0.86   0.86   0.86   0.86
Hourly flow rate (vph)      107      185      24      27    143     55     15    320     87    109    202     27
Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         NB 1    SB 1
Volume Total (vph)         316   224          422    338
Volume Left (vph)          107    27           15    109
Volume Right (vph)           24   55           87     27
Hadj (s)                  0.06 -0.09        -0.08   0.05
Departure Headway (s)       7.4  7.6          6.8    7.2
Degree Utilization, x     0.65 0.47          0.80   0.68
Capacity (veh/h)           446   402          500    463
Control Delay (s)         23.0 17.2          32.2   23.9
Approach Delay (s)        23.0 17.2          32.2   23.9
Approach LOS                  C    C            D      C
Intersection Summary
Delay                                        25.2
HCM Level of Service                            D
Intersection Capacity Utilization          74.9%       ICU Level of Service              D
Analysis Period (min)                          15




May 2010 Wednesday AM                                                                          Synchro 6 Report
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                           Page 1
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
2: Eastwood Dr. & Miramonte Ave.                                                          12/17/2010



Movement                  WBL WBR           NBT     NBR      SBL    SBT
Lane Configurations
Sign Control               Stop             Free                    Free
Grade                       0%               0%                      0%
Volume (veh/h)               13        0     411       3        3    202
Peak Hour Factor           0.86     0.86    0.86    0.86     0.86   0.86
Hourly flow rate (vph)       15        0     478       3        3    235
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type               None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume      722     480                      481
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol          722      480                     481
tC, single (s)              6.4      6.2                     4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      3.5     3.3                      2.2
p0 queue free %              96     100                      100
cM capacity (veh/h)         393     586                     1081
Direction, Lane #      WB 1         NB 1    SB 1
Volume Total              15         481     238
Volume Left               15           0       3
Volume Right               0           3       0
cSH                      393        1700    1081
Volume to Capacity      0.04        0.28    0.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)     3           0       0
Control Delay (s)       14.5         0.0     0.2
Lane LOS                   B                   A
Approach Delay (s)      14.5         0.0     0.2
Approach LOS               B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                 0.3
Intersection Capacity Utilization          31.8%          ICU Level of Service   A
Analysis Period (min)                          15




May 2010 Wednesday AM                                                                Synchro 6 Report
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                 Page 2
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
3: Covington Rd. & Grant Ave.                                                            12/17/2010



Movement                EBL EBR         NBL     NBT      SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900 1900        1900    1900    1900    1900
Lane Width                 10     10       10      10     10      10
Total Lost time (s)      4.0    4.0       4.0     4.0    4.0
Lane Util. Factor       1.00 1.00       1.00    1.00    0.95
Frpb, ped/bikes         1.00 0.99       1.00    1.00    0.99
Flpb, ped/bikes         1.00 1.00        1.00   1.00    1.00
Frt                     1.00 0.85       1.00    1.00    0.97
Flt Protected           0.95 1.00       0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)      1652 1458        1652    1739    3178
Flt Permitted           0.95 1.00        0.95    1.00   1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)      1652 1458        1652    1739    3178
Volume (vph)             210    111      107     748     388     102
Peak-hour factor, PHF   0.78 0.78       0.78    0.78    0.78    0.78
Adj. Flow (vph)          269    142       137     959    497     131
RTOR Reduction (vph)        0   112         0       0     23       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)    269      30      137     959    605       0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)         4      2        3                      3
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                                8
Turn Type                     Perm       Prot
Protected Phases            4               5      2        6
Permitted Phases                   4
Actuated Green, G (s)   11.3 11.3        7.6 30.9       19.3
Effective Green, g (s)  11.3 11.3        7.6 30.9       19.3
Actuated g/C Ratio      0.20 0.20       0.13 0.54       0.34
Clearance Time (s)       4.0    4.0      4.0   4.0        4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)     3.0    3.0     3.0   3.0        3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)       329    290      221  946       1080
v/s Ratio Prot         c0.16            0.08 c0.55       0.19
v/s Ratio Perm                 0.02
v/c Ratio               0.82 0.10       0.62    1.01     0.56
Uniform Delay, d1       21.8 18.6       23.2    12.9     15.3
Progression Factor      1.00 1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2   14.5    0.2      5.1    32.7      0.7
Delay (s)               36.3 18.8       28.3    45.7     16.0
Level of Service            D      B       C       D        B
Approach Delay (s)      30.2                    43.5     16.0
Approach LOS                C                      D        B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                32.8         HCM Level of Service     C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio             0.96
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                56.8         Sum of lost time (s)   14.6
Intersection Capacity Utilization      58.1%          ICU Level of Service      B
Analysis Period (min)                      15
c Critical Lane Group




May 2010 Wednesday AM                                                               Synchro 6 Report
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                Page 3
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
1: Covington Rd. & Miramonte Ave.                                                                     12/17/2010



Movement                   EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT    WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL    SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Stop                    Stop                 Stop                 Stop
Volume (vph)                 47      111      40      40     111     46     18    288     33     80    345     66
Peak Hour Factor           0.96     0.96    0.96    0.96    0.96   0.96   0.96   0.96   0.96   0.96   0.96   0.96
Hourly flow rate (vph)       49      116      42      42     116     48     19    300     34     83    359     69
Direction, Lane #     EB 1 WB 1             NB 1    SB 1
Volume Total (vph)      206   205             353     511
Volume Left (vph)         49   42              19      83
Volume Right (vph)        42   48              34      69
Hadj (s)              -0.04 -0.07           -0.01   -0.01
Departure Headway (s)    7.3  7.3             6.6     6.2
Degree Utilization, x  0.42 0.41             0.65    0.89
Capacity (veh/h)        454   454             512     511
Control Delay (s)      15.4 15.3             20.8    40.0
Approach Delay (s)     15.4 15.3             20.8    40.0
Approach LOS               C    C               C       E
Intersection Summary
Delay                                        26.7
HCM Level of Service                            D
Intersection Capacity Utilization          70.2%        ICU Level of Service              C
Analysis Period (min)                          15




May 2010 Wednesday PM                                                                           Synchro 6 Report
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                            Page 1
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
2: Eastwood Dr. & Miramonte Ave.                                                          12/17/2010



Movement                  WBL WBR           NBT     NBR      SBL    SBT
Lane Configurations
Sign Control               Stop             Free                    Free
Grade                       0%               0%                      0%
Volume (veh/h)               12        1     350      19        4    425
Peak Hour Factor           0.90     0.90    0.90    0.90     0.90   0.90
Hourly flow rate (vph)       13        1     389      21        4    472
Pedestrians                   4                 4
Lane Width (ft)            12.0             10.0
Walking Speed (ft/s)        4.0               4.0
Percent Blockage              0                 0
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type               None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume      889     403                      414
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol          889      403                     414
tC, single (s)              6.4      6.2                     4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      3.5     3.3                      2.2
p0 queue free %              96     100                      100
cM capacity (veh/h)         311     645                     1141
Direction, Lane #      WB 1         NB 1    SB 1
Volume Total              14         410     477
Volume Left               13           0       4
Volume Right               1          21       0
cSH                      324        1700    1141
Volume to Capacity      0.04        0.24    0.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)     3           0       0
Control Delay (s)       16.6         0.0     0.1
Lane LOS                   C                   A
Approach Delay (s)      16.6         0.0     0.1
Approach LOS               C
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                 0.3
Intersection Capacity Utilization          35.6%          ICU Level of Service   A
Analysis Period (min)                          15




May 2010 Wednesday PM                                                                Synchro 6 Report
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                 Page 2
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
3: Covington Rd. & Grant Ave.                                                         12/17/2010



Movement                EBL EBR NBL          NBT      SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900 1900 1900        1900    1900    1900
Lane Width                 10    10    10       10     10      10
Total Lost time (s)      4.0    4.0   4.0      4.0    4.0
Lane Util. Factor       1.00 1.00 1.00       1.00    0.95
Frpb, ped/bikes         1.00 0.99 1.00       1.00    1.00
Flpb, ped/bikes         1.00 1.00 1.00       1.00    1.00
Frt                     1.00 0.85 1.00       1.00    0.98
Flt Protected           0.95 1.00 0.95       1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)      1652 1458 1652        1739    3221
Flt Permitted           0.95 1.00 0.95        1.00   1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)      1652 1458 1652        1739    3221
Volume (vph)             118     78    73     472     883     145
Peak-hour factor, PHF   0.94 0.94 0.94       0.94    0.94    0.94
Adj. Flow (vph)          126     83    78     502     939     154
RTOR Reduction (vph)        0    70     0        0      9       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)    126     13    78      502   1084       0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)               1     1                       2
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                             5
Turn Type                     Perm   Prot
Protected Phases            4           5       2        6
Permitted Phases                  4
Actuated Green, G (s)   12.8 12.8     5.9    53.8 43.9
Effective Green, g (s)  12.8 12.8     5.9    53.8 43.9
Actuated g/C Ratio      0.16 0.16 0.07       0.66 0.54
Clearance Time (s)       4.0    4.0   4.0      4.0   4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)     3.0   3.0   3.0      3.0   3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)       259    229  120     1148 1735
v/s Ratio Prot         c0.08        c0.05     0.29 c0.34
v/s Ratio Perm                 0.01
v/c Ratio               0.49 0.06 0.65       0.44     0.62
Uniform Delay, d1       31.4 29.2 36.8        6.6     13.1
Progression Factor      1.00 1.00 1.00       1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2    1.4    0.1 11.9      0.3      0.7
Delay (s)               32.8 29.3 48.7        6.9     13.8
Level of Service            C     C     D       A        B
Approach Delay (s)      31.4                 12.5     13.8
Approach LOS                C                   B        B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay             15.3         HCM Level of Service     B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio          0.60
Actuated Cycle Length (s)             81.5         Sum of lost time (s)   18.9
Intersection Capacity Utilization   53.6%          ICU Level of Service      A
Analysis Period (min)                   15
c Critical Lane Group




May 2010 Wednesday PM                                                            Synchro 6 Report
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                             Page 3
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
1: Covington Rd. & Miramonte Ave.                                                                    12/17/2010



Movement                   EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL    WBT    WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL    SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Stop                   Stop                 Stop                 Stop
Volume (vph)                122      201       5      20    147    101      4    314    103     93    161     35
Peak Hour Factor           0.91     0.91    0.91    0.91   0.91   0.91   0.91   0.91   0.91   0.91   0.91   0.91
Hourly flow rate (vph)      134      221       5      22    162    111      4    345    113    102    177     38
Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         NB 1    SB 1
Volume Total (vph)         360   295          463    318
Volume Left (vph)          134    22            4    102
Volume Right (vph)            5  111          113     38
Hadj (s)                  0.10 -0.18        -0.11   0.03
Departure Headway (s)       8.3  8.4          7.9    8.4
Degree Utilization, x     0.83 0.68          1.01   0.74
Capacity (veh/h)           420   408          463    412
Control Delay (s)         40.9 27.6          74.0   31.8
Approach Delay (s)        40.9 27.6          74.0   31.8
Approach LOS                  E    D            F      D
Intersection Summary
Delay                                        46.8
HCM Level of Service                            E
Intersection Capacity Utilization          85.2%       ICU Level of Service              E
Analysis Period (min)                          15




May 2010 Thursday AM                                                                           Synchro 6 Report
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                           Page 1
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
2: Eastwood Dr. & Miramonte Ave.                                                          12/17/2010



Movement                  WBL WBR           NBT     NBR      SBL    SBT
Lane Configurations
Sign Control               Stop             Free                    Free
Grade                       0%               0%                      0%
Volume (veh/h)               33        1     432      14       12    207
Peak Hour Factor           0.96     0.96    0.96    0.96     0.96   0.96
Hourly flow rate (vph)       34        1     450      15       12    216
Pedestrians                   5
Lane Width (ft)            12.0
Walking Speed (ft/s)        4.0
Percent Blockage              0
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type               None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume      703     462                      470
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol          703      462                     470
tC, single (s)              6.4      6.2                     4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      3.5     3.3                      2.2
p0 queue free %              91     100                       99
cM capacity (veh/h)         398     597                     1088
Direction, Lane #      WB 1         NB 1    SB 1
Volume Total              35         465     228
Volume Left               34           0      12
Volume Right               1          15       0
cSH                      402        1700    1088
Volume to Capacity      0.09        0.27    0.01
Queue Length 95th (ft)     7           0       1
Control Delay (s)       14.8         0.0     0.6
Lane LOS                   B                   A
Approach Delay (s)      14.8         0.0     0.6
Approach LOS               B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                 0.9
Intersection Capacity Utilization          33.6%          ICU Level of Service   A
Analysis Period (min)                          15




May 2010 Thursday AM                                                                 Synchro 6 Report
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                 Page 2
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
3: Covington Rd. & Grant Ave.                                                            12/17/2010



Movement                EBL EBR         NBL     NBT      SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900 1900        1900    1900    1900    1900
Lane Width                 10     10       10      10     10      10
Total Lost time (s)      4.0    4.0       4.0     4.0    4.0
Lane Util. Factor       1.00 1.00       1.00    1.00    0.95
Frpb, ped/bikes         1.00 1.00       1.00    1.00    0.99
Flpb, ped/bikes         1.00 1.00        1.00   1.00    1.00
Frt                     1.00 0.85       1.00    1.00    0.97
Flt Protected           0.95 1.00       0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)      1652 1478        1652    1739    3183
Flt Permitted           0.95 1.00        0.95    1.00   1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)      1652 1478        1652    1739    3183
Volume (vph)             196    121      158     760     446     103
Peak-hour factor, PHF   0.80 0.80       0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80
Adj. Flow (vph)          245    151       198     950    558     129
RTOR Reduction (vph)        0   118         0       0     20       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)    245      33      198     950    667       0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)         2               6                      6
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                               15
Turn Type                     Perm       Prot
Protected Phases            4               5      2        6
Permitted Phases                   4
Actuated Green, G (s)   14.2 14.2        9.4 35.4       22.0
Effective Green, g (s)  14.2 14.2        9.4 35.4       22.0
Actuated g/C Ratio      0.22 0.22       0.15 0.55       0.34
Clearance Time (s)       4.0    4.0      4.0   4.0        4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)     3.0    3.0     3.0   3.0        3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)       363    325      240  953       1084
v/s Ratio Prot         c0.15            0.12 c0.55       0.21
v/s Ratio Perm                 0.02
v/c Ratio               0.67 0.10       0.82    1.00     0.62
Uniform Delay, d1       23.1 20.1       26.8    14.5     17.8
Progression Factor      1.00 1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2    4.9    0.1     20.1    28.2      1.0
Delay (s)               28.0 20.3       46.9    42.7     18.8
Level of Service            C      C       D       D        B
Approach Delay (s)      25.0                    43.4     18.8
Approach LOS                C                      D        B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                32.6         HCM Level of Service     C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio             0.90
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                64.6         Sum of lost time (s)   15.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization      57.5%          ICU Level of Service      B
Analysis Period (min)                      15
c Critical Lane Group




May 2010 Thursday AM                                                                Synchro 6 Report
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                Page 3
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
1: Covington Rd. & Miramonte Ave.                                                                    12/17/2010



Movement                   EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL    WBT    WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL    SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Stop                   Stop                 Stop                 Stop
Volume (vph)                 70      112      26      36    129     60     16    264     27     79    368     50
Peak Hour Factor           0.94     0.94    0.94    0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94
Hourly flow rate (vph)       74      119      28      38    137     64     17    281     29     84    391     53
Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         NB 1    SB 1
Volume Total (vph)         221   239          327    529
Volume Left (vph)            74   38           17     84
Volume Right (vph)           28   64           29     53
Hadj (s)                  0.03 -0.09        -0.01   0.01
Departure Headway (s)       7.6  7.5          7.0    6.5
Degree Utilization, x     0.47 0.50          0.64   0.96
Capacity (veh/h)           440   457          493    542
Control Delay (s)         17.2 17.6          21.4   54.6
Approach Delay (s)        17.2 17.6          21.4   54.6
Approach LOS                  C    C            C      F
Intersection Summary
Delay                                        33.4
HCM Level of Service                            D
Intersection Capacity Utilization          74.5%       ICU Level of Service              D
Analysis Period (min)                          15




May 2010 Thursday PM                                                                           Synchro 6 Report
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                           Page 1
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
2: Eastwood Dr. & Miramonte Ave.                                                          12/17/2010



Movement                  WBL WBR           NBT     NBR      SBL    SBT
Lane Configurations
Sign Control               Stop             Free                    Free
Grade                       0%               0%                      0%
Volume (veh/h)               16        2     303      19        0    432
Peak Hour Factor           0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92   0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)       17        2     329      21        0    470
Pedestrians                   4
Lane Width (ft)            12.0
Walking Speed (ft/s)        4.0
Percent Blockage              0
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type               None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume      813     344                      354
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol          813      344                     354
tC, single (s)              6.4      6.2                     4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      3.5     3.3                      2.2
p0 queue free %              95     100                      100
cM capacity (veh/h)         347     697                     1201
Direction, Lane #      WB 1         NB 1    SB 1
Volume Total              20         350     470
Volume Left               17           0       0
Volume Right               2          21       0
cSH                      367        1700    1201
Volume to Capacity      0.05        0.21    0.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)     4           0       0
Control Delay (s)       15.4         0.0     0.0
Lane LOS                   C
Approach Delay (s)      15.4         0.0      0.0
Approach LOS               C
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                 0.4
Intersection Capacity Utilization          32.7%          ICU Level of Service   A
Analysis Period (min)                          15




May 2010 Thursday PM                                                                 Synchro 6 Report
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                 Page 2
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
3: Covington Rd. & Grant Ave.                                                         12/17/2010



Movement                EBL EBR NBL          NBT      SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900 1900 1900        1900    1900    1900
Lane Width                 10     10    10      10     10      10
Total Lost time (s)      4.0    4.0    4.0     4.0    4.0
Lane Util. Factor       1.00 1.00 1.00       1.00    0.95
Frpb, ped/bikes         1.00 0.99 1.00       1.00    0.99
Flpb, ped/bikes         1.00 1.00 1.00       1.00    1.00
Frt                     1.00 0.85 1.00       1.00    0.98
Flt Protected           0.95 1.00 0.95       1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)      1652 1459 1652        1739    3216
Flt Permitted           0.95 1.00 0.95        1.00   1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)      1652 1459 1652        1739    3216
Volume (vph)             115    113   101     441    1046     173
Peak-hour factor, PHF   0.94 0.94 0.94       0.94    0.94    0.94
Adj. Flow (vph)          122    120   107      469   1113     184
RTOR Reduction (vph)        0   101      0       0     10       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)    122      19   107     469   1287       0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)         4      1     5                      5
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                            11
Turn Type                     Perm    Prot
Protected Phases            4            5      2        6
Permitted Phases                   4
Actuated Green, G (s)   12.2 12.2      8.6   48.5 35.9
Effective Green, g (s)  12.2 12.2      8.6   48.5 35.9
Actuated g/C Ratio      0.16 0.16 0.11       0.64 0.47
Clearance Time (s)       4.0    4.0    4.0     4.0   4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)     3.0    3.0   3.0     3.0   3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)       264    234   186    1107 1515
v/s Ratio Prot         c0.07         c0.06    0.27 c0.40
v/s Ratio Perm                 0.01
v/c Ratio               0.46 0.08 0.58       0.42     0.85
Uniform Delay, d1       29.0 27.2 32.1        6.9     17.8
Progression Factor      1.00 1.00 1.00       1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2    1.3    0.2    4.3    0.3      4.7
Delay (s)               30.3 27.4 36.3        7.2     22.4
Level of Service            C      C     D      A        C
Approach Delay (s)      28.9                 12.6     22.4
Approach LOS                C                   B        C
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay             20.5         HCM Level of Service     C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio          0.72
Actuated Cycle Length (s)             76.2         Sum of lost time (s)   19.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization   59.0%          ICU Level of Service      B
Analysis Period (min)                   15
c Critical Lane Group




May 2010 Thursday PM                                                             Synchro 6 Report
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                             Page 3
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
1: Covington Rd. & Miramonte Ave.                                                                     12/17/2010



Movement                   EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT    WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL    SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Stop                    Stop                 Stop                 Stop
Volume (vph)                 87      128      18      17     117     38      6    304     38     46    123     29
Peak Hour Factor           0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92    0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92   0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)       95      139      20      18     127     41      7    330     41     50    134     32
Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         NB 1    SB 1
Volume Total (vph)         253   187          378     215
Volume Left (vph)            95   18            7      50
Volume Right (vph)           20   41           41      32
Hadj (s)                  0.06 -0.08        -0.03   -0.01
Departure Headway (s)       6.1  6.1          5.7     6.0
Degree Utilization, x     0.43 0.32          0.59    0.36
Capacity (veh/h)           534   507          598     531
Control Delay (s)         13.6 11.9          16.6    12.3
Approach Delay (s)        13.6 11.9          16.6    12.3
Approach LOS                  B    B            C       B
Intersection Summary
Delay                                        14.1
HCM Level of Service                            B
Intersection Capacity Utilization          66.1%        ICU Level of Service              C
Analysis Period (min)                          15




July 2010 AM Peak Hour                                                                          Synchro 6 Report
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                            Page 1
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
2: Eastwood Dr. & Miramonte Ave.                                                          12/17/2010



Movement                  WBL WBR           NBT     NBR      SBL    SBT
Lane Configurations
Sign Control               Stop             Free                    Free
Grade                       0%               0%                      0%
Volume (veh/h)               40        0     379      16       10    199
Peak Hour Factor           0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92   0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)       43        0     412      17       11    216
Pedestrians                                     1
Lane Width (ft)                             10.0
Walking Speed (ft/s)                          4.0
Percent Blockage                                0
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type               None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume      660     421                      429
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol          660      421                     429
tC, single (s)              6.4      6.2                     4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      3.5     3.3                      2.2
p0 queue free %              90     100                       99
cM capacity (veh/h)         424     633                     1130
Direction, Lane #      WB 1         NB 1    SB 1
Volume Total              43         429     227
Volume Left               43           0      11
Volume Right               0          17       0
cSH                      424        1700    1130
Volume to Capacity      0.10        0.25    0.01
Queue Length 95th (ft)     9           0       1
Control Delay (s)       14.5         0.0     0.5
Lane LOS                   B                   A
Approach Delay (s)      14.5         0.0     0.5
Approach LOS               B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                 1.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization          30.9%          ICU Level of Service   A
Analysis Period (min)                          15




July 2010 AM Peak Hour                                                               Synchro 6 Report
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                 Page 2
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
3: Covington Rd. & Grant Ave.                                                            12/17/2010



Movement                EBL EBR         NBL     NBT      SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900 1900        1900    1900    1900    1900
Lane Width                 10     10       10      10     10      10
Total Lost time (s)      4.0    4.0       4.0     4.0    4.0
Lane Util. Factor       1.00 1.00       1.00    1.00    0.95
Frpb, ped/bikes         1.00 0.97       1.00    1.00    0.99
Flpb, ped/bikes         1.00 1.00        1.00   1.00    1.00
Frt                     1.00 0.85       1.00    1.00    0.97
Flt Protected           0.95 1.00       0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)      1652 1438        1652    1739    3187
Flt Permitted           0.95 1.00        0.95    1.00   1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)      1652 1438        1652    1739    3187
Volume (vph)             180    127      134     629     481     121
Peak-hour factor, PHF   0.78 0.78       0.78    0.78    0.78    0.78
Adj. Flow (vph)          231    163       172     806    617     155
RTOR Reduction (vph)        0   128         0       0     22       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)    231      35      172     806    750       0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                3
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)              12                                6
Turn Type                     Perm       Prot
Protected Phases            4               5      2        6
Permitted Phases                   4
Actuated Green, G (s)   13.9 13.9        9.4 35.5       22.1
Effective Green, g (s)  13.9 13.9        9.4 35.5       22.1
Actuated g/C Ratio      0.22 0.22       0.15 0.55       0.34
Clearance Time (s)       4.0    4.0      4.0   4.0        4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)     3.0    3.0     3.0   3.0        3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)       357    311      242  960       1095
v/s Ratio Prot         c0.14            0.10 c0.46       0.24
v/s Ratio Perm                 0.02
v/c Ratio               0.65 0.11       0.71    0.84     0.68
Uniform Delay, d1       23.0 20.2       26.2    12.0     18.1
Progression Factor      1.00 1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2    4.0    0.2      9.4     6.5      1.8
Delay (s)               27.0 20.4       35.6    18.6     19.9
Level of Service            C      C       D       B        B
Approach Delay (s)      24.3                    21.6     19.9
Approach LOS                C                      C        B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                21.5         HCM Level of Service     C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio             0.79
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                64.3         Sum of lost time (s)   14.9
Intersection Capacity Utilization      50.5%          ICU Level of Service      A
Analysis Period (min)                      15
c Critical Lane Group




July 2010 AM Peak Hour                                                              Synchro 6 Report
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                Page 3
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
1: Covington Rd. & Miramonte Ave.                                                                    12/17/2010



Movement                   EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL    WBT    WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL    SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Sign Control                        Stop                   Stop                 Stop                 Stop
Volume (vph)                118      181      10      27    122    125      9    279     62     89    169     32
Peak Hour Factor           0.85     0.85    0.85    0.85   0.85   0.85   0.85   0.85   0.85   0.85   0.85   0.85
Hourly flow rate (vph)      139      213      12      32    144    147     11    328     73    105    199     38
Direction, Lane #         EB 1 WB 1         NB 1    SB 1
Volume Total (vph)         364   322          412    341
Volume Left (vph)          139    32           11    105
Volume Right (vph)           12  147           73     38
Hadj (s)                  0.09 -0.22        -0.07   0.03
Departure Headway (s)       8.8  8.7          8.4    8.8
Degree Utilization, x     0.89 0.78          0.96   0.84
Capacity (veh/h)           396   399          423    398
Control Delay (s)         50.9 36.5          64.5   43.3
Approach Delay (s)        50.9 36.5          64.5   43.3
Approach LOS                  F    E            F      E
Intersection Summary
Delay                                        49.8
HCM Level of Service                            E
Intersection Capacity Utilization          80.8%       ICU Level of Service              D
Analysis Period (min)                          15




October 2010 AM Peak Hour                                                                      Synchro 6 Report
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                           Page 1
HCM Unsignalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
2: Eastwood Dr. & Miramonte Ave.                                                          12/17/2010



Movement                  WBL WBR           NBT     NBR      SBL    SBT
Lane Configurations
Sign Control               Stop             Free                    Free
Grade                       0%               0%                      0%
Volume (veh/h)               40        0     379      16       10    199
Peak Hour Factor           0.92     0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92   0.92
Hourly flow rate (vph)       43        0     412      17       11    216
Pedestrians                                     1
Lane Width (ft)                             10.0
Walking Speed (ft/s)                          4.0
Percent Blockage                                0
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type               None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume      660     421                      429
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol          660      421                     429
tC, single (s)              6.4      6.2                     4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                      3.5     3.3                      2.2
p0 queue free %              90     100                       99
cM capacity (veh/h)         424     633                     1130
Direction, Lane #      WB 1         NB 1    SB 1
Volume Total              43         429     227
Volume Left               43           0      11
Volume Right               0          17       0
cSH                      424        1700    1130
Volume to Capacity      0.10        0.25    0.01
Queue Length 95th (ft)     9           0       1
Control Delay (s)       14.5         0.0     0.5
Lane LOS                   B                   A
Approach Delay (s)      14.5         0.0     0.5
Approach LOS               B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                 1.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization          30.9%          ICU Level of Service   A
Analysis Period (min)                          15




October 2010 AM Peak Hour                                                            Synchro 6 Report
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                 Page 2
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
3: Covington Rd. & Grant Ave.                                                            12/17/2010



Movement                EBL EBR         NBL     NBT      SBT    SBR
Lane Configurations
Ideal Flow (vphpl)     1900 1900        1900    1900    1900    1900
Lane Width                 10     10       10      10     10      10
Total Lost time (s)      4.0    4.0       4.0     4.0    4.0
Lane Util. Factor       1.00 1.00       1.00    1.00    0.95
Frpb, ped/bikes         1.00 0.97       1.00    1.00    0.99
Flpb, ped/bikes         1.00 1.00        1.00   1.00    1.00
Frt                     1.00 0.85       1.00    1.00    0.97
Flt Protected           0.95 1.00       0.95    1.00    1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)      1652 1438        1652    1739    3187
Flt Permitted           0.95 1.00        0.95    1.00   1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)      1652 1438        1652    1739    3187
Volume (vph)             180    127      134     629     481     121
Peak-hour factor, PHF   0.78 0.78       0.78    0.78    0.78    0.78
Adj. Flow (vph)          231    163       172     806    617     155
RTOR Reduction (vph)        0   128         0       0     22       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)    231      35      172     806    750       0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                3
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)              12                                6
Turn Type                     Perm       Prot
Protected Phases            4               5      2        6
Permitted Phases                   4
Actuated Green, G (s)   13.9 13.9        9.4 35.5       22.1
Effective Green, g (s)  13.9 13.9        9.4 35.5       22.1
Actuated g/C Ratio      0.22 0.22       0.15 0.55       0.34
Clearance Time (s)       4.0    4.0      4.0   4.0        4.0
Vehicle Extension (s)     3.0    3.0     3.0   3.0        3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)       357    311      242  960       1095
v/s Ratio Prot         c0.14            0.10 c0.46       0.24
v/s Ratio Perm                 0.02
v/c Ratio               0.65 0.11       0.71    0.84     0.68
Uniform Delay, d1       23.0 20.2       26.2    12.0     18.1
Progression Factor      1.00 1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2    4.0    0.2      9.4     6.5      1.8
Delay (s)               27.0 20.4       35.6    18.6     19.9
Level of Service            C      C       D       B        B
Approach Delay (s)      24.3                    21.6     19.9
Approach LOS                C                      C        B
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                21.5         HCM Level of Service     C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio             0.79
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                64.3         Sum of lost time (s)   14.9
Intersection Capacity Utilization      50.5%          ICU Level of Service      A
Analysis Period (min)                      15
c Critical Lane Group




October 2010 AM Peak Hour                                                           Synchro 6 Report
Fehr & Peers Associates, Inc.                                                                Page 3
   ATTACHMENT E
Signal Warrant Analysis
                                                   Covington_Miramonte_Wednesday_Signal Warrant.xls




                   Input data only in green fields


Major/Minor Information                   1     1 => N/S is major
                                                2 => E/W is major

Urban/Rural Information                   1     1 => Urban
                                                2 => Rural
Total Intersection Approaches             4

Lane configuartion
             No of lanes
Major Street             1                    Scenario       Exist Wed
Minor Street             1


                                                Total
                                Vehicles per Vehicles on
Worst Case Delay                  second      Approach
Minor Street                              23          316


Approaching Volume
                        Major Street                  Minor Street
   Hours            N.B             S.B           E.B            W.B
  12:00 AM           6               13            1               2
  1:00 AM            4               7             2               3
  2:00 AM            1               2             1               1
  3:00 AM            1               4             2               3
  4:00 AM            5               5             4               3
  5:00 AM            26              22            21              4
  6:00 AM            89              62            54              40
  7:00 AM           411             251           254             189
  8:00 AM           328             333           291             206
  9:00 AM           350             238           165             128
  10:00 AM          259             252           101             119
  11:00 AM          267             307           136             128
  12:00 PM          241             344           148             179
  1:00 PM           249             324           111             126
  2:00 PM           336             382           220             240
  3:00 PM           269             381           180             196
  4:00 PM           341             485           240             245
  5:00 PM           336             527           199             274
  6:00 PM           287             551           212             179
  7:00 PM           218             327           150             152
  8:00 PM           124             228            59              69
  9:00 PM            87             240            45             117
  10:00 PM           38              78            18              36
  11:00 PM           15              19            4               6


                                                                                       DATA INPUT
                                                             Covington_Miramonte_Wednesday_Signal Warrant.xls


The warrant is satisfied when, for each of any 8 hours of an average day, the traffic volumes given
in the table below exist on the major street and on the higher-volume minor street approach to the
intersection.

Number of lanes for moving traffic         Vehicles per hour on     Vehicles per hour on
     on each approach                           major street         higher-volume minor-
                                        (total ofboth approaches)       street approach
Major Street         Minor Street                                      (one direction only)

     1                    1                      500                       150
2 or more                 1                      600                       150
2 or more            2 or more                   600                       200
    1                2 or more                   500                       200

When the 85-percentile speed of major-street exceeds 40 mph in either an urban or rural area, or
when the intersection lies within the built-up area of an isolated community having a population of
less than 10,000, the Minimum Vehicular Volume warrant is 70 percent of the requirements above.




                                     No of lanes
               Major Street                     1
               Minor Street                     1

                         Major Street                        Minor Street
                                 Threshhold            Veh/hour on Threshhold
                 Volume on               higher volume                                 Warrants
   Time
                major street     URBAN    minor street   URBAN                         MET/NOT
                (total of both           (one direction
                approaches)          500     only)           150
   8:00 AM                   661                     291                                  MET
   5:00 PM                   863                     274                                  MET
   7:00 AM                   662                     254                                  MET
   4:00 PM                   826                     245                                  MET
   2:00 PM                   718                     240                                  MET
   6:00 PM                   838                     212                                  MET
   3:00 PM                   650                     196                                  MET
  12:00 PM                   585                     179                                  MET

                                     Number of hours for which warrant met                         8
                                     Percentage by which warrant met                          100.0%




                                                                                                       WARRANT1A
                                                           Covington_Miramonte_Wednesday_Signal Warrant.xls


The warrant is satisfied when, for each of any 8 hours of an average day, the traffic volumes
given in the table below exist on the major street and on the higher-volume minor street
approach to the intersection, and signal installation will not seriously disrupt progressive traffic
flow.

Number of lanes for moving traffic       Vehicles per hour on     Vehicles per hour on
     on each approach                         major street         higher-volume minor-
                                      (total ofboth approaches)       street approach
Major Street         Minor Street                                    (one direction only)

     1                    1                     750                      75
2 or more                 1                     900                      75
2 or more            2 or more                  900                      100
    1                2 or more                  750                      100

The major-street and minor -street volumes are for the same 8 hours. During those 8 hours, the
direction of higher volume on the minor street may be on one approach during some hours and
on the opposite approach during other hours.

When the 85-percentile speed of major-street exceeds 40 mph in either an urban or rural area, or
when the intersection lies within the built-up area of an isolated community having a population
of less than 10,000, the Interruption of Continuous Traffic warrant is 70 percent of the
requirements above.




                                 No of lanes
               Major Street                 1
               Minor Street                 1

                     Major Street                      Minor Street
                Volume on    Threshhold          Veh/hour on Threshhold            Warrants
  Time         major (total of  URBAN higher volume URBAN                          MET/NOT
                   both                   minor (one
               approaches)          750 direction only)  75
 8:00 AM                    661                     291                            NOT MET
 5:00 PM                    863                     274                              MET
 7:00 AM                    662                     254                            NOT MET
 4:00 PM                    826                     245                              MET
 2:00 PM                    718                     240                            NOT MET
 6:00 PM                    838                     212                              MET
 3:00 PM                    650                     196                            NOT MET
12:00 PM                    585                     179                            NOT MET

                                 Number of hours for which warrant met                          3
                                 Percentage by which warrant met                            37.5%




                                                                                                    WARRANT1B
                                                  Covington_Miramonte_Wednesday_Signal Warrant.xls



In exceptional cases, signals occasionally may be justified where no single warrant is satisfied
but where Warrants 1A and 1B are satisfied to the extent of 80% or more of the stated values.




80% of Warrant 1A Met                    YES
80% of Warrant 1B Met                    NO




                                                                                                   Warrant 1
                                                                                            Covington_Miramonte_Wednesday_Signal Warrant.xls

                                                          !"
The Four Hour Volume Warrant is satisfied when each of any four hours of an average day the plotted
points representing the vehicles per hour on the major street (total of both approaches) and the
corresponding vehicles per hour on the higher volume minor street approach (one direction only) all fall
above the curve in Figure 4C-1 for the existing combination of approach lanes.




                                                                No of lanes
                                           Major Street                       1
                                           Minor Street                       1

                                                               Peak Four Hours
                                                                      Vehicles Per Hour
                                                  Time           Major Street   Minor street
                                                                 (Sum of both (High volume
                                                                 approaches)     approach)
                                                 8:00 AM             661            291
                                                 5:00 PM             863            274
                                                 7:00 AM             662            254
                                                 4:00 PM             826            245



                                                           FIGURE 4C-1. FOUR HOUR VOLUME WARRANT
                                           500
                                                                                        2 OR MORE LANES & 2 OR MORE LANES
   MINOR STREET - HIGHER VOLUME APPROACH




                                           400

                                                                                        2 OR MORE LANES & 1 LANE
                                           300

                                                                                                      1 LANE & 1 LANE
                                           200
                     (VPH)




                                           100                                                                                         *115
                                                                                                                                       *80

                                             0
                                                 300     400      500   600       700     800   900     1000   1100   1200    1300   1400
                                                                  MAJOR STREET - TOTAL OF BOTH APPROACHES (VPH)

 *Note: 115 vph applies as the lower threshold volume for a minor street                                              Peak Four Hours
 approach with two or more lanes and 80 vph applies as the lower threshold
 volume for a minor street approach with one or lane.




                                                                                                                             WARRANT 2 (URBAN)
                                                                                                                 Signal Warrant Analysis
                                                                                                                Laurel Road/Teton Street
                                            #          $   %"
The peak hour volume warrant is satisfied when the plotted point representing the vehicles per hour on
the major street (total of both approaches) and the corresponding vehicles per hour of the higher
volume minor street approach (one direction only) for one hour (any four consecutive 15-minute
periods) of an average day falls above the curve in Figure 4-5 for the existing combination of approach
lanes.




                                                             No of lanes
                                           Major Street                    1
                                           Minor Street                    1

                                                              Peak Hour
                                                                  Vehicles Per Hour
                                                  Time       Major Street   Minor street
                                                             (Sum of both (High volume
                                                             approaches)     approach)
                                                 5:00 PM         863            274



                                                           FIGURE 4C-3. PEAK HOUR VOLUME WARRANT

                                           700
   MINOR STREET - HIGHER VOLUME APPROACH




                                           600
                                                                                 2 OR MORE LANES & 2 OR MORE LANES
                                           500
                                                                                       2 OR MORE LANES & 1 LANE
                                           400

                                           300                                                    1 LANE & 1 LANE
                     (VPH)




                                           200
                                                                                                                             *150
                                           100
                                                                                                                             *100

                                            0
                                                 400        600        800      1000       1200       1400      1600      1800
                                                                MAJOR STREET - TOTAL OF BOTH APPROACHES (VPH)

 *Note: 150 vph applies as the lower threshold volume for a minor street
 approach with two or more lanes and 100 vph applies as the lower threshold
 volume for a minor street approach with one or lane.                                                           Peak Hour




                                                                                                                WARRANT 3B (URBAN)
                                                                Covington_Miramonte_Thursday_Signal Warrant.xls


The warrant is satisfied when, for each of any 8 hours of an average day, the traffic volumes given
in the table below exist on the major street and on the higher-volume minor street approach to the
intersection.

Number of lanes for moving traffic         Vehicles per hour on     Vehicles per hour on
     on each approach                           major street         higher-volume minor-
                                        (total ofboth approaches)       street approach
Major Street         Minor Street                                      (one direction only)

     1                    1                      500                       150
2 or more                 1                      600                       150
2 or more            2 or more                   600                       200
    1                2 or more                   500                       200

When the 85-percentile speed of major-street exceeds 40 mph in either an urban or rural area, or
when the intersection lies within the built-up area of an isolated community having a population of
less than 10,000, the Minimum Vehicular Volume warrant is 70 percent of the requirements above.




                                     No of lanes
               Major Street                     1
               Minor Street                     1

                         Major Street                        Minor Street
                                 Threshhold            Veh/hour on Threshhold
                 Volume on               higher volume                                 Warrants
   Time
                major street     URBAN    minor street   URBAN                         MET/NOT
                (total of both           (one direction
                approaches)          500     only)           150
   5:00 PM                   834                     313                                  MET
   4:00 PM                   762                     245                                  MET
   3:00 PM                   725                     241                                  MET
   2:00 PM                   713                     240                                  MET
   8:00 AM                   625                     224                                  MET
   7:00 AM                   568                     189                                  MET
   6:00 PM                   706                     189                                  MET
  12:00 PM                   599                     179                                  MET

                                     Number of hours for which warrant met                         8
                                     Percentage by which warrant met                          100.0%




                                                                                                       WARRANT1A
                                                              Covington_Miramonte_Thursday_Signal Warrant.xls


The warrant is satisfied when, for each of any 8 hours of an average day, the traffic volumes
given in the table below exist on the major street and on the higher-volume minor street
approach to the intersection, and signal installation will not seriously disrupt progressive traffic
flow.

Number of lanes for moving traffic       Vehicles per hour on     Vehicles per hour on
     on each approach                         major street         higher-volume minor-
                                      (total ofboth approaches)       street approach
Major Street         Minor Street                                    (one direction only)

     1                    1                     750                      75
2 or more                 1                     900                      75
2 or more            2 or more                  900                      100
    1                2 or more                  750                      100

The major-street and minor -street volumes are for the same 8 hours. During those 8 hours, the
direction of higher volume on the minor street may be on one approach during some hours and
on the opposite approach during other hours.

When the 85-percentile speed of major-street exceeds 40 mph in either an urban or rural area, or
when the intersection lies within the built-up area of an isolated community having a population
of less than 10,000, the Interruption of Continuous Traffic warrant is 70 percent of the
requirements above.




                                 No of lanes
               Major Street                 1
               Minor Street                 1

                     Major Street                      Minor Street
                Volume on    Threshhold          Veh/hour on Threshhold            Warrants
  Time         major (total of  URBAN higher volume URBAN                          MET/NOT
                   both                   minor (one
               approaches)          750 direction only)  75
 5:00 PM                    834                     313                              MET
 4:00 PM                    762                     245                              MET
 3:00 PM                    725                     241                            NOT MET
 2:00 PM                    713                     240                            NOT MET
 8:00 AM                    625                     224                            NOT MET
 7:00 AM                    568                     189                            NOT MET
 6:00 PM                    706                     189                            NOT MET
12:00 PM                    599                     179                            NOT MET

                                 Number of hours for which warrant met                          2
                                 Percentage by which warrant met                            25.0%




                                                                                                    WARRANT1B
                                                                                                Covington_Miramonte_Thursday_Signal Warrant.xls

                                                          !"
The Four Hour Volume Warrant is satisfied when each of any four hours of an average day the plotted
points representing the vehicles per hour on the major street (total of both approaches) and the
corresponding vehicles per hour on the higher volume minor street approach (one direction only) all fall
above the curve in Figure 4C-1 for the existing combination of approach lanes.




                                                                No of lanes
                                           Major Street                       1
                                           Minor Street                       1

                                                               Peak Four Hours
                                                                      Vehicles Per Hour
                                                  Time           Major Street   Minor street
                                                                 (Sum of both (High volume
                                                                 approaches)     approach)
                                                 5:00 PM             834            313
                                                 4:00 PM             762            245
                                                 3:00 PM             725            241
                                                 2:00 PM             713            240



                                                           FIGURE 4C-1. FOUR HOUR VOLUME WARRANT
                                           500
                                                                                        2 OR MORE LANES & 2 OR MORE LANES
   MINOR STREET - HIGHER VOLUME APPROACH




                                           400

                                                                                        2 OR MORE LANES & 1 LANE
                                           300

                                                                                                        1 LANE & 1 LANE
                                           200
                     (VPH)




                                           100                                                                                           *115
                                                                                                                                         *80

                                             0
                                                 300     400      500   600       700     800     900     1000   1100   1200    1300   1400
                                                                  MAJOR STREET - TOTAL OF BOTH APPROACHES (VPH)

 *Note: 115 vph applies as the lower threshold volume for a minor street                                                  Peak Four Hours
 approach with two or more lanes and 80 vph applies as the lower threshold
 volume for a minor street approach with one or lane.




                                                                                                                               WARRANT 2 (URBAN)
                                                                                       Covington_Miramonte_Thursday_Signal Warrant.xls

                                            #          $   %"
The peak hour volume warrant is satisfied when the plotted point representing the vehicles per hour on
the major street (total of both approaches) and the corresponding vehicles per hour of the higher
volume minor street approach (one direction only) for one hour (any four consecutive 15-minute
periods) of an average day falls above the curve in Figure 4-5 for the existing combination of approach
lanes.




                                                             No of lanes
                                           Major Street                    1
                                           Minor Street                    1

                                                              Peak Hour
                                                                  Vehicles Per Hour
                                                  Time       Major Street   Minor street
                                                             (Sum of both (High volume
                                                             approaches)     approach)
                                                 5:00 PM         834            313



                                                           FIGURE 4C-3. PEAK HOUR VOLUME WARRANT

                                           700
   MINOR STREET - HIGHER VOLUME APPROACH




                                           600
                                                                                 2 OR MORE LANES & 2 OR MORE LANES
                                           500
                                                                                       2 OR MORE LANES & 1 LANE
                                           400

                                           300                                                    1 LANE & 1 LANE
                     (VPH)




                                           200
                                                                                                                             *150
                                           100
                                                                                                                             *100

                                            0
                                                 400        600        800      1000       1200       1400      1600     1800
                                                                MAJOR STREET - TOTAL OF BOTH APPROACHES (VPH)

 *Note: 150 vph applies as the lower threshold volume for a minor street
 approach with two or more lanes and 100 vph applies as the lower threshold
 volume for a minor street approach with one or lane.                                                            Peak Hour




                                                                                                                WARRANT 3B (URBAN)
                                                     Covington_Miramonte_Thursday_Signal Warrant.xls



In exceptional cases, signals occasionally may be justified where no single warrant is satisfied
but where Warrants 1A and 1B are satisfied to the extent of 80% or more of the stated values.




80% of Warrant 1A Met                    YES
80% of Warrant 1B Met                    NO




                                                                                                   Warrant 1
                                                      Covington_Miramonte_Thursday_Signal Warrant.xls




                   Input data only in green fields


Major/Minor Information                   1     1 => N/S is major
                                                2 => E/W is major

Urban/Rural Information                   1     1 => Urban
                                                2 => Rural
Total Intersection Approaches             4

Lane configuartion
             No of lanes
Major Street             1                    Scenario       Exist Thurs
Minor Street             1


                                                Total
                                Vehicles per Vehicles on
Worst Case Delay                  second      Approach
Minor Street                             40.9         360


Approaching Volume
                        Major Street                  Minor Street
   Hours            N.B             S.B           E.B            W.B
  12:00 AM           8               14            0               2
  1:00 AM            5               6             1               3
  2:00 AM            3               4             2               1
  3:00 AM            2               5             0               3
  4:00 AM            4               7             3               3
  5:00 AM            24              17            4               4
  6:00 AM            85              66            29              40
  7:00 AM           339             229           178             189
  8:00 AM           312             313           224             206
  9:00 AM           351             229           136             128
  10:00 AM          245             284           124             119
  11:00 AM          258             315           163             128
  12:00 PM          276             323           168             179
  1:00 PM           258             300           139             126
  2:00 PM           317             396           240             240
  3:00 PM           330             395           241             196
  4:00 PM           329             433           229             245
  5:00 PM           324             510           313             274
  6:00 PM           235             471           189             179
  7:00 PM           183             292           126             152
  8:00 PM            95             220            80              69
  9:00 PM            77             173            39             117
  10:00 PM           42              95            18              36
  11:00 PM           19              32            6               6


                                                                                        DATA INPUT
  ATTACHMENT F
Example Treatments
          Attachment F: Example Treatment Summary


                                                EXAMPLE TREATMENTS


                   Measure                               Description                     Benefits              Application
Level 1
Marked Crosswalk                                                                                           Marked crosswalks
                                                                                    Marked crosswalks
                                                Marked crosswalks should be                                alone should not be
                                                                                    provide a
                                                installed to provide designated                            installed on multi-
                                                                                    designated
                                                pedestrian crossings at major                              lane roads with
                                                                                    crossing, which
                                                pedestrian generators,                                     more than about
                                                                                    may improve
                                                crossings with significant                                 10,000 vehicles/
                                                                                    walkability by
                                                pedestrian volumes (at least                               day. Enhanced
                                                                                    signaling a clear
                                                15 per hour), crossings with                               crosswalk
                                                                                    "channel" for
   Image source: www.walkinginfo.org/pedsafe/   high vehicle-pedestrian                                    treatments (as
                                                                                    pedestrian
                                                collisions, and other areas                                presented in this
                                                                                    pathways to both
                                                based on engineering                                       table) should
                                                                                    pedestrians and
                                                judgment                                                   supplement the
                                                                                    vehicles.
                                                                                                           marked crosswalk.
High-Visibility Signs and Markings


                                                High-visibility markings include
                                                                                    FHWA recently
                                                a family of crosswalk striping
                                                                                    ended its approval     Beneficial in areas
                                                styles such as the "ladder" and
                                                                                    process for the        with high pedestrian
                                                the "continental." High-
                                                                                    experimental use of    activity, as near
                                                visibility fluorescent yellow
                                                                                    fluorescent yellow     schools, and in
                                                green signs are made of the
                                                                                    crosswalk markings     areas where travel
                                                approved fluorescent yellow-
                                                                                    and found that they    speeds are high
                                                green color and posted at
                                                                                    had no discernable     and/or motorist
                                                crossings to increase the
                                                                                    benefit over white     visibility is low.
                                                visibility of a pedestrian
                                                                                    markings.
                                                crossing.

  Image source: exodusinnovations.com

Advanced Yield or Stop Lines                                                        This measure
                                                                                                           Useful in areas
                                                                                    increases the
                                                                                                           where pedestrian
                                                                                    pedestrian's
                                                                                                           visibility is low and
                                                                                    visibility to
                                                Standard white stop or yield                               in areas with
                                                                                    motorists, reduces
                                                limit lines are placed in                                  aggressive drivers,
                                                                                    the number of
                                                advance of marked,                                         as advance limit
                                                                                    vehicles
                                                uncontrolled crosswalks. Stop                              lines will help
                                                                                    encroaching on the
                                                or yield lines are determined                              prevent drivers from
                                                                                    crosswalk, and
                                                based on state vehicle codes                               encroaching on the
                                                                                    improves general
                                                (requiring the driver to either                            crosswalk.
                                                                                    pedestrian
                                                stop or yield to the pedestrian).                          Addresses the
                                                                                    conditions on multi-
                                                                                                           multiple-threat
     Image source: www.saferoutesinfo.org                                           lane roadways. It
                                                                                                           collision on multi-
                                                                                    is also an
                                                                                                           lane roads.
                                                                                    affordable option.




                                                     Page 1 of 6 EX
          Attachment F: Example Treatment Summary


                                             EXAMPLE TREATMENTS


                    Measure                          Description                    Benefits               Application
In-Street Pedestrian Crossing Signs                                                                    Mid-block
                                                                                                       crosswalks,
                                            This measure involves posting
                                                                                                       unsignalized
                                            regulatory pedestrian signage
                                                                                                       intersections, low-
                                            on lane edge lines and road
                                                                                                       speed areas, and
                                            centerlines. The In-Street
                                                                                                       two-lane roadways
                                            Pedestrian Crossing sign may
                                                                              This measure is          are ideal for this
                                            be used to remind road users
                                                                              highly visible to        pedestrian
                                            of laws regarding right of way
                                                                              motorists and has a      treatment. The
                                            at an unsignalized pedestrian
                                                                              positive impact on       STOP FOR legend
                                            crossing. The legend STATE
                                                                              pedestrian safety at     shall only be used
                                            LAW may be shown at the top
                                                                              crosswalks.              in states where the
                                            of the sign if applicable. The
                                                                                                       state law
                                            legends STOP FOR or YIELD
                                                                                                       specifically requires
                                            TO may be used in
                                                                                                       that a driver must
       Image source:                        conjunction with the
       www.seton.com                                                                                   stop for a
                                            appropriate symbol.
                                                                                                       pedestrian in a
                                                                                                       crosswalk.
Level 2
Curb Extension/ Bulb Outs
                                                                                                       Due to the high cost
                                                                              Curb extensions
                                                                                                       of installation, this
                                                                              narrow the distance
                                                                                                       tool would only be
                                            Also known as a pedestrian        that a pedestrian
                                                                                                       suitable on streets
                                            bulb-out, this traffic-calming    has to cross and
                                                                                                       with high pedestrian
                                            measure is meant to slow          increases the
                                                                                                       activity, on-street
                                            traffic and increase driver       sidewalk space on
                                                                                                       parking, and
                                            awareness. It consists of an      the corners. They
                                                                                                       infrequent (or no)
                                            extension of the curb into the    also improve
                                                                                                       curb-edge transit
                                            street, making the pedestrian     emergency vehicle
                                                                                                       service. It is often
                                            space (sidewalk) wider.           access and make it
                                                                                                       used in combination
                                                                              difficult for drivers
                                                                                                       with crosswalks or
                                                                              to turn illegally.
                 Image source: Dan Burden                                                              other markings.

Reduced Curb Radii                                                            Shorter radii            This measure would
                                                                              narrow the distance      be beneficial on
                                                                              that pedestrians         streets with high
                                                                              have to cross; they      pedestrian activity,
                                                                              also reduce traffic      on-street parking,
                                            The radius of a curb can be
                                                                              speeds and               and no curb-edge
                                            reduced to require motorists to
                                                                              increase driver          transit service. It is
                                            make a tighter turn.
                                                                              awareness (like          more suitable for
                                                                              curb extensions),        wider roadways and
                                                                              but are less difficult   roadways with low
                                                                              and expensive to         volumes of heavy
   Image Source: www.ci.austin.tx.us                                          implement.               truck traffic.
Staggered Median Pedestrian Island          This measure is similar to        Benefits of this tool
                                            traditional median refuge         include an increase
                                            islands; the only difference is   in the                   Best used on multi-
                                            that the crosswalks in the        concentration of         lane roads with
                                            roadway are staggered such        pedestrians at a         obstructed
                                            that a pedestrian crosses half    crossing and the         pedestrian visibility
                                            the street and then must walk     provision of better      or with off-set
                                            towards traffic to reach the      traffic views for        intersections
                                            second half of the crosswalk.     pedestrians.
                                            This measure must be              Additionally,
          Image Source: www.tfhrc.gov/      designed for accessibility by     motorists are better

                                                 Page 2 of 6 EEXAMPLE
          Attachment F: Example Treatment Summary


                                         EXAMPLE TREATMENTS


                    Measure                        Description                   Benefits             Application
                                         including rails and truncated     able to see
                                         domes to direct sight-impaired    pedestrians as they
                                         pedestrians along the path of     walk through the
                                         travel.                           staggered refuge.



Level 3
In-Roadway Warning Lights                                                                         Best in locations
                                                                                                  with low bicycle
                                                                                                  ridership, as the
                                                                                                  raised markers
                                                                                                  present a hazard to
                                                                                                  bicyclists. May not
                                                                                                  be appropriate in
                                         Both sides of a crosswalk are
                                                                           This measure           areas with heavy
                                         lined with pavement markers,
                                                                           provides a dynamic     winter weather due
                                         often containing an amber
                                                                           visual cue, and is     to high maintenance
                                         LED strobe light. The lights
                                                                           increasingly           costs. May not be
                                         may be push-button activated
                                                                           effective in bad       appropriate for
                                         or activated with pedestrian
                                                                           weather                locations with bright
                                         detection.
                                                                                                  sunlight. The lights
                                                                                                  may cause
                                                                                                  confusion when
          Image Source: www.tfhrc.gov/
                                                                                                  pedestrians fail to
                                                                                                  activate them
                                                                                                  and/or when they
                                                                                                  falsely activate.
Overhead Flashing Beacons
                                                                           The blinking lights
                                                                           during pedestrian
                                                                           crossing times
                                                                           increase the
                                                                                                  Best used in places
                                                                           number of drivers
                                         Flashing amber lights are                                where motorists
                                                                           yielding for
                                         installed on overhead signs, in                          cannot see a
                                                                           pedestrians and
                                         advance of the crosswalk or at                           traditional sign due
                                                                           reduce pedestrian-
                                         the entrance to the crosswalk.                           to topography or
                                                                           vehicle conflicts.
                                                                                                  other barriers.
                                                                           This measure can
                                                                           also improve
                                                                           conditions on multi-
                                                                           lane roadways.
            Image source: tti.tamu.edu




                                              Page 3 of 6 EXA
          Attachment F: Example Treatment Summary


                                                  EXAMPLE TREATMENTS


                    Measure                                Description                    Benefits             Application
Stutter Flash*

                                                                                     Initial studies
                                                                                     suggest the stutter
                                                  The Overhead Flashing
                                                                                     flash is very
                                                  Beacon is enhanced by
                                                                                     effective as
                                                  replacing the traditional slow
                                                                                     measured by           Appropriate for
                                                  flashing incandescent lamps
                                                                                     increased driver      multi-lane
                                                  with rapid flashing LED lamps.
                                                                                     yielding behavior.    roadways.
                                                  The beacons may be push-
                                                                                     Solar panels
                                                  button activated or activated
                                                                                     reduce energy
                                                  with pedestrian detection.
                                                                                     costs associated
                                                                                     with the device.
     Image source: mutcd.fhwa.dot.gov

Level 4
Hawk Beacon Signal*
                                                  HAWK (High Intensity
                                                  Activated Crosswalks) are                                Useful in areas
                                                  pedestrian-actuated signals                              where it is difficult
                                                  that are a combination of a                              for pedestrians to
                                                  beacon flasher and a traffic                             find gaps in
                                                  control signal. When actuated,     Reduces               automobile traffic to
                                                  HAWK displays a yellow             pedestrian-vehicle    cross safely, but
                                                  (warning) indication followed      conflicts and slows   where normal signal
                                                  by a solid red light. During       traffic speeds        warrants are not
                                                  pedestrian clearance, the                                satisfied.
                                                  driver sees a flashing red "wig-                         Appropriate for
                                                  wag" pattern until the                                   multi-lane
                                                  clearance interval has ended                             roadways.
          Image Source: www.tfhrc.gov/            and the signal goes dark.


Level 5

Traffic Signal                                                                                             Must meet warrants
                                                                                                           based on traffic and
                                                                                                           pedestrian volumes;
                                                  Conventional traffic control
                                                                                     Reduces               however,
                                                  devices with warrants for use
                                                                                     pedestrian-vehicle    exceptions are
                            Image source:         based on the Manual on
                         www.livablestreets.com                                      conflicts and slows   possible based on
                                                  Uniform Control Devices
                                                                                     traffic speeds        demonstrated
                                                  (MUTCD)
                                                                                                           pedestrian safety
                                                                                                           concerns (collision
                                                                                                           history)




                                                       Page 4 of 6 EE
        Attachment F: Example Treatment Summary


                                         EXAMPLE TREATMENTS


                  Measure                         Description                   Benefits               Application
Pedestrian Overpass/ Underpass                                                                     Grade separation
                                                                                                   via this measure is
                                                                                                   most feasible and
                                                                                                   appropriate in
                                                                                                   extreme cases
                                                                           Pedestrian              where pedestrians
                                                                           overpasses and          must cross
                                         This measure consists of a
                                                                           underpasses allow       roadways such as
                                         pedestrian-only overpass or
                                                                           for the                 freeways and high-
                                         underpass over a roadway. It
                                                                           uninterrupted flow      speed, high-volume
                                         provides complete separation
                                                                           of pedestrian           arterials. Use of
                                         of pedestrians from motor
                                                                           movement                either type of facility
                                         vehicle traffic, normally where
                                                                           separate from the       falls off rapidly
                                         no other pedestrian facility is
                                                                           vehicle traffic.        when the additional
                                         available, and connects off-
                                                                           However, for            time required for
              Image source:              road trails and paths across
                                                                           underpasses,            such use amounts
    omahamidcenturymodern.blogsome.com   major barriers.
                                                                           security is known to    to 20% or more of
                                                                           be a major issue.       the time required to
                                                                                                   cross at grade.
                                                                                                   This measure
                                                                                                   should be
                                                                                                   considered only
                                                                                                   with further study.
Consider for All Multi-Lane Roads

Road Diet (aka Lane Reduction)                                             This is a good
                                                                           traffic calming and     Roadways with
                                                                           pedestrian safety       surplus roadway
                                                                           tool, particularly in   capacity (typically
                                         The number of lanes of travel     areas that would        multi-lane roadways
                                         is reduced by widening            benefit from curb       with less than
                                         sidewalks, adding bicycle and     extensions but          15,000 to 17,000
                                         parking lanes, and converting     have infrastructure     ADT) and high
                                         parallel parking to angled or     in the way. This        bicycle volumes,
                                         perpendicular parking.            measure also            and roadways that
                                                                           improves                would benefit from
                                                                           pedestrian              traffic calming
                                                                           conditions on multi-    measures.
         Image Source: www.tfhrc.gov/                                      lane roadways.




                                              Page 5 of 6 EX
         Attachment F: Example Treatment Summary


                                                     EXAMPLE TREATMENTS


                    Measure                                      Description              Benefits              Application
Median Pedestrian Island
                                                                                     This measure
                                                                                     allows pedestrians
                                                                                     to focus on each
                                                                                     direction of traffic
                                                                                     separately, and the
                                                                                     refuge provides
                                                      Raised islands are placed in   pedestrians with a      Recommended for
                                                      the center of a roadway,       better view of          multi-lane roads
                                                      separating opposing lanes of   oncoming traffic as     wide enough to
                                                      traffic with cutouts for       well as allowing        accommodate an
                                                      accessibility along the        drivers to see          ADA-accessible
                                                      pedestrian path.               pedestrians more        median
                                                                                     easily. It can also
                                                                                     split up a multi-lane
                Image source:
                                                                                     road and act as a
  http://thegoodcity.wordpress.com/categor                                           supplement to
               y/transportation/                                                     additional
                                                                                     pedestrian tools.

* Treatment not included in the current version of the MUTCD




                                                               Page 6 of 6 E
