                                   Disclaimer



The contents of this report reflect the views of the author(s), who is (are)
responsible for the facts and accuracy of the data presented herein. The contents
do not necessarily reflect the official views of the Colorado Department of
Transportation or the Federal Highway Administration. This report does not
constitute a standard, specification, or regulation.
                                                                                             Technical Report Documentation Page
1. Report No.                              2. Government Accession No.                      3. Recipient's Catalog No.
CDOT-2007-11
4. Title and Subtitle                                                                       5. Report Date
ANALYSIS OF BICYCLE-RELATED AND PEDESTRIAN-RELATED                                          June 2007
ROADWAY CRASHES
                                                                                            6. Performing Organization Code


7. Author(s)                                                                                8. Performing Organization Report No.
Michael P. Gill, Jr. P.E.                                                                   CDOT-2007-11
9. Performing Organization Name and Address                                                 10. Work Unit No. (TRAIS)
Carter-Burgess
707 17th Street, Suite 2300                                                                 11. Contract or Grant No.
Denver, CO 80205-5204                                                                       97.30
12. Sponsoring Agency Name and Address                                                      13. Type of Report and Period Covered
Colorado Department of Transportation - Research                                            Final Report
4201 E. Arkansas Ave.
Denver, CO 80222
                                                                                            14. Sponsoring Agency Code

15. Supplementary Notes
Prepared in cooperation with the US Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration


16. Abstract
The premise of this study is that crashes involving bicyclists and pedestrians are similar in characteristics, including type and
cause. Using available data and existing analysis tools, the study conducted a corridor-specific approach along state
highways within local and/or county jurisdictional boundaries to identify potential trends based on patterns in crash types
and causes. For instance, do the majority of pedestrian crashes along a corridor occur at mid-block locations; at or near
intersections that involve a pedestrian hit by a turning vehicle; or involve a pedestrian hit from behind while walking with
traffic along a roadway shoulder (paved or unpaved) and not on a sidewalk? Do most bicycle crashes involve a motorist
overtaking a bicyclist, a motorist turning or merging into the path of a bicyclist, or a bicyclist turning or merging into the
path of a motorist?

By identifying common causal factors of bicycle and pedestrian crashes, this study should help planning and design efforts
to provide safer intersections and corridors for use by pedestrians and bicyclists. The study developed recommendations to
improve statewide, county and local data recording of bicycle and pedestrian crash factors.

Implementation:
The results of this study will help planners to assess similarities among crashes involving bicyclists and pedestrians, assist
the 402 Safety Program by identifying bicycle and pedestrian education and outreach needs and audiences, and provide
information to help in development of programs to reduce the frequency and severity of crashes involving bicyclists and
pedestrians.



17. Keywords                                                            18. Distribution Statement
pedestrian safety, bicycle safety, bicycle facilities,                  No restrictions. This document is available to the public
crosswalks, intersections, accidents                                    through the National Technical Information Service
                                                                        5825 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161


19. Security Classif. (of this report)          20. Security Classif. (of this page)                 21. No. of Pages    22. Price
           None                                           None                                                181

Form DOT F 1700.7 (8-72)                 Reproduction of completed page authorized
                                                    Table of Contents

I.       Introduction.............................................................................................................. 1
II.      Literature Review .................................................................................................... 3
     1. A Review of Pedestrian Safety Research in the United States and
        Abroad........................................................................................................................ 4
     2. Field Evaluation of Two Methods for Restricting Right Turn on Red
        to Promote Pedestrian Safety ..................................................................................... 6
     3. Safety Analysis of Marked Versus Unmarked Crosswalks in 30 Cities.................... 7
     4. Safety Benefits of Advance Stop Lines at Signalized Intersections:
        Results of a Field Evaluation ................................................................................... 10
     5. Improving Pedestrian Safety at Unsignalized Crossings ......................................... 11
     6. Pedestrian Safety through a Raised Median and Redesigned
        Intersections ............................................................................................................. 12
III. Selection of Evaluation Sites ................................................................................. 14
IV. Site Data Collection................................................................................................ 16
     Geometric Design and Traffic Control Data................................................................. 16
     Traffic Volume Data..................................................................................................... 18
     Pedestrian-Related and Bicycle-Related Crash Data ................................................... 18
V.       Data Analysis.......................................................................................................... 20
VI. Results and Conclusions ........................................................................................ 22
     Descriptive Statistics .................................................................................................... 22
     When Do Bike/Pedestrians Collision Occur? ............................................................... 22
     Geometric Findings....................................................................................................... 23
     Corridor Relationships.................................................................................................. 34
VII Recommendations .................................................................................................. 38
Glossary ........................................................................................................................... 41

Appendix
 Appendix A: References
     Appendix B: Summary of Selected Papers
     Appendix C: Intersection Data Collection Form
     Appendix D: Design Guidance Tool


                                                                    i
  Appendix E: Statistical Analysis Datasheets
  Appendix F: Turning Movement Datasheets


List of Figures
Figure 1: Intersection Data Collection Form .................................................................... 17
Figure 2: Crashes by Time of Day.................................................................................... 23
Figure 3: Additional Crashes per Approach ..................................................................... 30
Figure 4: Bicycle-Related and Pedestrian-Related Crashes: Year 2001 through 2005 ... 34
Figure 5: Average Number of Crashes per Intersection: Year 2001 through 2005 ......... 35


List of Tables
Table 1: Example of Facilities Improvements to Enhance Pedestrian Safety .................... 9
Table 2: Intersections with Highest Number of Crashes Part of an Identified Corridor .. 14
Table 3: Additional Study Intersections ........................................................................... 15
Table 4: On Street Vs. Off Street Bike Facilities.............................................................. 37




                                                          ii
I.     INTRODUCTION

This report presents the results from the Phase II analysis of Bicycle-Related and
Pedestrian-Related Roadway Crashes. Phase I of this research project focused on
gathering existing crash data into PBCAT database (including correcting errors found on
crash reports), geo-referencing the crashes, and high level statistical analysis of the data
to determine if there were patterns worth further study. Phase I analysis indicated that if
an intersection has a relatively high cyclist or pedestrian crash frequency, it will likely
have a higher than normal proportion of crashes involving motorists making right-turns.
This suggested that reducing the occurrence of crashes involving right-turns may improve
the safety at the at-grade intersections. The objective of the Phase II research was to
perform a geometric analysis of at-grade intersections to determine any relationships
between intersection geometry and the pattern of crashes occurring.


The representatives of the participating agencies met on several occasions during Phase I
and Phase II of the study to assist in guiding the research and discuss the outcomes.
Based on the review of the Phase I study it was decided to concentrate on the top 25 crash
intersections having a statistically significant difference in respect to right-turning vehicle
crashes from the database as a whole. In addition, the panel identified a number of
corridors ­ Folsom Street, Canyon Boulevard, Arapahoe Road, and Pearl Street ­ that
were studied regardless of crash counts to determine what is working and what is not
working along a continuous facility.


Geometric design, traffic volumes, and traffic control data were collected at the top 25
crash intersections as well as at 9 comparison intersections chosen to complement the
high crash locations along the corridors listed above. The geometric data and traffic
control data at these intersections were collected in February and March 2007 by visiting
each intersection. Intersection turning movement counts, including pedestrian volumes,
were collected in April 2007.


                                              1
This report presents the analysis methodology and evaluation approaches used to evaluate
the geometric data and crash data. Section 2 of the report presents a review of the safety
literature concerning intersection design improvements. Section 3 describes the selection
of the evaluation sites. The collection of data concerning those evaluation sites is
described in section 4. Section 5 presents the evaluation plan for the study, while section
6 presents and interprets the evaluation results. The conclusions and recommendations of
the study are presented in section 7.


Appendix A summarizes a list of published literature concerning bicycle and pedestrian
safety improvements at at-grade intersections.


Appendix B summarizes selected relevant research papers/reports that were not discussed
in section 2.


Appendix C presents the "Intersection Data Collection Form" and the summary of
abbreviations used to collect the geometric design and traffic control data in the field.


Appendix D presents a design tool based on the project findings and information from
other research projects. The matrix provided serves as a reference document to determine
the potential engineering countermeasures to reduce the risk of urban pedestrian and
bicycle related crashes.


Appendix E presents the detailed results of all statistical evaluations performed in the
research; this appendix includes all evaluation results that are discussed in section 6 of
the report, as well as other evaluations whose results were not statistically significant and
were, therefore, not used.


Appendix F presents the traffic counts data gathered for this study.


                                              2
II.      LITERATURE REVIEW

This section summarizes the research on pedestrian safety in the United States focusing
on crash characteristics and safety improvements/effects of various roadway features and
traffic control devices. This section also summarizes other research documenting the
effects of innovative engineering treatments on pedestrian safety. A list of references is
located in Appendix A. Appendix B includes a short summary of other selected relevant
reports not summarized here.


When reviewing existing research papers, the project team identified six reports which
were especially pertinent to this study. These six reports are:


      1. A Review of Pedestrian Safety Research in the United States and Abroad. Office
         of Safety Research and Development, U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal
         Highway Administration, Report # FHWA-RD-03-042, McLean, VA, 2004.


      2. Field Evaluation of Two Methods for Restricting Right Turn on Red to Promote
         Pedestrian Safety. Richard A. Retting, Marsha S. Nitzberg, et al. ITE Journal,
         Vol. 72, No. 1, pp. 32-36, Washington, D.C., 2002.


      3. Safety Analysis of Marked Versus Unmarked Crosswalks in 30 Cities. Charles V.
         Zegeer, Carol Tan Esse, J. Richard Stewart, Herman F. Huang, and Peter
         Lagerwey. ITE Journal, Vol. 74, No. 1, pp. 34-41, Washington, D.C., 2004.


      4. Safety Benefits of Advance Stop Lines at Signalized Intersections: Results of a
         Field Evaluation. Richard A. Retting and Ron Van Houten. ITE Journal,
         Vol. 54, No. 9, pp. 47-49, Washington, D.C., 2000.




                                              3
                   5. Improving Pedestrian Safety at Unsignalized Crossings. NCHRP Report 562,
                       Transportation Research Board, Washington, D.C., 2006.


                   6. Pedestrian Safety Through a Raised Median and Redesigned Intersections. King, M. In
                       Transportation Research Record 1828, pp. 56-66, Transportation Research Board, 2003.


These reports are summarized below:


1.      A Review of Pedestrian Safety Research in the United States and
        Abroad

This document summarized research on pedestrian safety in the United States with a
focus on crash characteristics and the safety effects of various roadway features and
traffic control devices. Pedestrian education considerations and enforcement programs
were also discussed. The report also contains a summary of main findings. The findings
relevant to this study are listed below:


        In terms of marked versus unmarked crosswalks at uncontrolled intersections (i.e.,
        no stop sign or traffic signal on the approach roadway) on a two lane road, the
        presence of a marked crosswalk alone is associated with no difference in
        pedestrian crash rate compared to an unmarked crosswalk. On multilane roads
        with traffic volumes above 12,000 vehicles per day, having a marked crosswalk
        alone (without other substantial improvements) is associated with a higher
        pedestrian crash rate (after controlling for other site factors) compared to an
        unmarked crosswalk. More substantial improvements are recommended to
        provide for safer pedestrian crossings at such locations, such as adding traffic
        signals (with pedestrian signals) when warranted, provide raised medians, and
        installing speed-reducing measures.



                                                            4
   Providing raised medians on multilane roads can substantially reduce pedestrian
   crash risk (and can also make it easier to cross the street).


   There is evidence that substantially improved nighttime lighting can enhance
   pedestrian safety in certain situations.


   At intersections with traffic signals, adding a WALK/DON'T WALK signal with
   a standard timing scheme (i.e., motorists move parallel to pedestrians and may
   turn right or left on a green light across pedestrian's path) has no significant effect
   on pedestrian crashes. Providing an exclusive pedestrian interval (i.e., motorists
   are stopped in all directions during the same interval each cycle while pedestrians
   cross in any direction) reduces pedestrian collisions by 50 percent.


   Allowing vehicles to make a right-turn-on-red (RTOR) maneuver appears to
   result in a small but clear safety problem for pedestrians. In fact, 21 percent of
   motorists violate NO TURN ON RED (NTOR) signs if given the opportunity, and
   23 percent of RTOR violations result in a conflict with the pedestrian.
   Countermeasures that have been effective in reducing pedestrian risks related
   RTOR include illuminated NTOR signs, offset stop bars at intersections where
   RTOR is allowed (i.e., motorists are more likely to make a full stop often),
   variations in NTOR signs, and others.


   Various pedestrian and motorist warning signs have been found to reduce vehicle
   speeds or conflicts between pedestrian and motorists. These devices include the
   "strong yellow green" pedestrian warning sign, YIELD TO PEDESTRIANS
   WHEN TURNING sign, PEDESTRIANS WATCH FOR TURNING VEHICLES
   sign, three section WALK WITH CARE signal head, a DON'T START display to
   replace the flashing DON'T WALK display, and others.



                                          5
        Curb medians provide a safer environment for pedestrians compared with two-
        way, left-turn lanes (TWLTLs), while undivided highways have the highest crash
        risk for pedestrians in TWLTL settings.


2.      Field Evaluation of Two Methods for Restricting Right Turn on
        Red to Promote Pedestrian Safety

This study was conducted in Arlington County, VA. A group of 15 signalized
intersections was selected from locations where the Arlington Department of Public
Works was considering instituting pedestrian safety measures, partly due to citizen
complaints about the impacts of right turn on red (RTOR) on pedestrians. The selected
intersections were randomly assigned into three groups: control, no RTOR during
specific hours (7.00AM - 7.00PM, Monday thru Friday), and no RTOR when pedestrians
are present.




                                            6
At each site where RTOR was restricted, two signs were posted ­ one was mounted on a
post near the stop sign on the right-hand side of the street, and a second sign was
mounted overhead adjacent to the traffic signal indication. No other changes were made
at these intersections. Each study site was one leg of intersection. Each study site was
observed fro 10 hours both before and after installation of "no turn on red" signs.
Observations were limited to weekdays between the hours of 8 am and 7 pm.


The study results indicated that traffic signs prohibiting RTOR during specific hours were
very effective at increasing driver compliance with stop lines, reducing the number of
pedestrians yielding the right of way to turning vehicles. Signs giving drivers discretion
to turn right on red based on whether pedestrians are present were not found to be very
effective. Stutts et al. reported that nearly 80 percent of intersection crashes involving
pedestrians and turning vehicles occurred between 6 am and 6 pm and 95 percent
occurred between 6 am and 10pm, RTOR restrictions and other countermeasures can help
prevent pedestrian crashes at intersections.


3.     Safety Analysis of Marked Versus Unmarked Crosswalks in 30
       Cities

The purpose of the study was to determine whether marked crosswalks at uncontrolled
locations were safer than unmarked crosswalks under various traffic and roadway
conditions and to provide recommendations on how to provide safer crossings for
pedestrians. In total, 1,000 marked crosswalk sites and 1,000 matched unmarked
comparison sites in 30 major cities across the United States were selected for analysis.


Detailed information was collected at each of the 2,000 sites, including pedestrian crash
history, estimates of daily pedestrian volumes, average daily traffic volume (ADT),
number of lanes, speed limit, area type, median type, condition and type of crosswalk
marking patterns, location type (mid-block versus intersection), and other site

                                               7
characteristics. Crosswalk marking patterns found at the study sites included standard
(parallel lines), solid (painted within the parallel lines), dashed lines, zebra, ladder, and
continental patterns, as illustrated in MUTCD. Very few of the marked crosswalks had
any type of supplemental pedestrian warning signs, traffic calming measures, or special
treatments. Poisson modeling and negative binomial regression were used in the data
analysis. Using these analysis techniques allowed for determining statistically valid
safety relationships. A total of 229 pedestrian crashes at the 2,000 crossing sites were
evaluated.


The analysis revealed that traffic and roadway factors related to a greater frequency of
pedestrian crashes included higher pedestrian volumes, higher ADT, and a greater
number of lanes. The presence of a raised median was associated with a significantly
lower pedestrian crash rate at multi-lane sites with both marked and unmarked
crosswalks. Also, on multi-lane roads, medians that were painted (but not raised) and
center two-way-left-turn lanes did not offer significant safety benefits to pedestrians
compared to multi-lane roads with no medians at all.


Factors having no significant effect on pedestrian crash rate included area type (such as
residential or downtown), location type (intersection versus midblock), speed limit,
traffic operation (one-way or two-way), condition of crosswalk marking, and crosswalk
marking pattern. In terms of speed and crash severity, the analysis showed that speed
limits of 35mph and greater were associated with a higher percentage of fatal crashes that
sites having lower speed limits.


The results of the study indicate that there were no significant differences in crash rates
between marked and unmarked crosswalks on two lane roads, multi-lane roads with an
ADT less than 12,000, and multi-lane roads with an ADT less than 15,000 and raised
medians. Marked crosswalks on multi-lane roads with an ADT greater than 12,000 and
without raised medians, and marked crosswalks with an ADT greater than 15,000 with

                                             8
raised medians had significantly higher pedestrian crash rates than locations with
unmarked crossings.


          Table 1: Example of Facilities Improvements to Enhance Pedestrian Safety




             Source: Safety Analysis of Marked Versus Unmarked Crosswalks in 30
             Cities. Charles V. Zegeer, Carol Tan Esse, J. Richard Stewart, Herman F.
             Huang, and Peter Lagerwey. ITE Journal, Washington, D.C., January
             2004.



                                               9
4.     Safety Benefits of Advance Stop Lines at Signalized Intersections:
       Results of a Field Evaluation

The purpose of this study was to investigate driver compliance with advance stop lines at
signalized intersections and potential safety benefits from their use. A before and after
design study was conducted at four signalized crosswalks in the city of St. Petersburg,
FL, USA. During the baseline study the stop lines were located 4 feet back from the
crosswalks. The stop lines at study sites were then removed, and experimental advanced
stop lines were installed 20 feet from the crosswalks. Data collection for the baseline and
experimental periods were done for 31 and 46 hours, respectively, during which times the
numbers of drivers observed were 2,024 and 3,113, respectively.


Data such as driver compliance with stop sign locations, vehicle encroachment into
crosswalks, vehicle path (turning left, right or proceeding through) and elapsed time for
the front wheels of the lead vehicle to enter the intersection after onset of the green signal
was collected. Analysis of driver compliance with stop sign was limited to through
vehicles because turning vehicles, especially those turning right or left on red, are more
likely to stop past marked stop lines in order to view traffic on the cross streets. Video
cameras were deployed to compute the elapsed time between the start of the green signal
phase and the lead vehicle entering the intersection.


The results indicated that overall 57 percent of drivers complied with advance stop lines.
Overall, the percentage of drivers who stopped in the crosswalks declined from 25
percent to 7 percent after installation of advance stop lines. For each site and for the four
sites combined, changes after intervention were found to be statistically significant.
Safety benefits of advanced stop lines were also discussed in the paper. The authors
suggested that advanced stop lines may prove useful in preventing multiple threat
collisions, which involves a pedestrian being struck by a vehicle in a cross walk on a
multiple road after another vehicle has yielded to the pedestrian, thereby reducing the


                                             10
sight distance of the pedestrian and motorists approaching the crosswalk. Advanced stop
signs also may reduce the risk of pedestrian crashes involving left-turning vehicles.
Additional safety benefits may include potential reduction in the risk of right-angle
collisions caused by red-light running, due to the increase in elapsed time for lead
vehicles to enter the intersection after onset of green signals.


5.     Improving Pedestrian Safety at Unsignalized Crossings

The study had two main objectives. First, to recommend selected engineering treatments
to improve safety for pedestrians crossing high volume, high speed roadways at
unsignalized intersections, in particular those served by public transportation, and second,
to recommend modifications to the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for
Streets and Highways (MUTCD) pedestrian traffic signal warrant. Phase I of the research
focused on reviewing the literature, conducting surveys, and evaluating the state of the
practice, and concluded with the development of a study approach for phase II to
accomplish the research project objectives.


Based on the findings of the study, 3.5 ft/sec walking speed for the general population
and 3.0 ft/sec walking speed for older pedestrians was recommended. The research team
recommended the addition of red signal or beacon devices to the engineer's alternative
for pedestrian crossings. The study results indicated that all red signal or beacon devices
prompted high levels of motorist compliance on high volume, high speed streets,
however, only a traffic signal is currently recognized in the MUTCD, and current
pedestrian signal warrant is very difficult to meet. The research team recommended the
inclusion of a new type of highway traffic signal (a "pedestrian beacon") in the MUTCD.


The study outlined a procedure to determine the intersection safety improvements. Two
worksheets were provided ­ one for speeds 35 mph or less and the other for speeds
exceeding 35 mph with a population less than 10,000 where a transit stop exists. The first


                                              11
step would be select appropriate worksheet based on the 85th percentile speed on the
major street. The second step would be to check the minimum pedestrian volume. If the
pedestrian volume is fewer than 20 pedestrians per hour, then geometric improvements
such as traffic calming, median refuge islands and curb extensions shall be considered
rather than signs, signals, or markings. Third step would be to check if the pedestrian
volumes satisfy the pedestrian signal warrant. The report also provided a synopsis of
selected pedestrian crossing treatments more commonly being used in the United States.
The treatments include advance signing, advance stop line and signing, median refuge
islands, raised crosswalks, curb extension, roadway narrowing, markings and crossing
signs, in-street pedestrian crossing signs, high visibility signs and markings, in-roadway
warning lights, pedestrian crossing flags, overhead flashing amber beacons, pedestrian
crosswalk signal, half signal, HAWK beacon signal, pedestrian beacon, and traffic signal.


6.     Pedestrian Safety through a Raised Median and Redesigned
       Intersections

This paper documented the effect of a raised median, signalized and redesigned
intersections, curbs, and sidewalks on vehicle speed, pedestrian exposure risk, driver
predictability, and vehicle volume along a four lane suburban roadway in central New
Jersey. The analysis used both qualitative tools (speed and volume counts, timing runs)
and qualitative methods (pedestrian tracking, video, before-after photography). Together,
before-after data and before-after imaging provided a clear picture of the
benefits/limitations of the project.


Site data was collected in Plainsboro Township (near Princeton, New Jersey) where
approximately 3,200 feet long section of Plainsboro Road, a four lane suburban roadway
with 4 major intersections at about 1,000 feet intervals, was reconstructed. The
reconstruction consisted of redesign of the two interior intersections with signals,
intersection-only bike lanes, stop lines, textured crosswalks, and removal of two free


                                           12
right-turn lanes, a 7.5 foot wide, 900 foot long raised median between the two interior
intersections, narrower roadway width, timing the signal to maintain a speed of 45 mph,
curb, bike lanes, street trees, sidewalks, and bus shelters along the corridor. The before-
after data analysis was conducted and following results were obtained:


   1. Vehicle speeds recorded by an automatic traffic recorder (ATR) placed at the
       median showed that the hourly average and 85th percentile speed fell by 2 to 3
       mph due to reduction in lane width from 12 feet to 10.5 feet.


   2. Mid-block pedestrian exposure risk is the time which a person is exposed to on-
       coming traffic while crossing the street. A measure of exposure risk is the width
       of traveled way within the edge line of curbs. Plainsboro Road was approximately
       58 feet wide; with the raised median the roadway was transformed into two 21
       feet wide streets, lowering the mid-block pedestrian exposure risk by 28%.


   3. An overall measure of roadway safety is driver predictability. Examining the
       physical characteristics of the road and making a qualitative judgment regarding
       the ability of pedestrians, cyclists, and other motorists to predict the speed and
       actions of driver can assess driver predictability. The addition of a median and
       curbs increased driver predictability by keeping the vehicles on the roadway and
       in their half of the roadway. Addition of signals also created gaps in the traffic
       streams, which makes crossing mid-block easier. Striped bike lanes and stop lines
       at the intersection helped better organize the area.


   4. No impact on traffic volumes was observed consistent with the nature of
       improvements which were not designed to affect traffic volumes.




                                             13
III.   SELECTION OF EVALUATION SITES

From the Phase I work, the project team identified the top 25 crash intersections (Table
2) as having a statistically significant difference in respect to right-turning vehicle crashes
from the database as a whole. This indicated that there may be features of these specific
intersections that will point to generalized mitigation strategies. Hence, these
intersections were selected for further evaluation.

                                             Table 2:
                          Intersections with Highest Number of Crashes
                                  Part of an Identified Corridor

                          Folsom & Arapahoe                     X
                          Baseline Rd & 29th                    X
                          Broadway & Baseline                   X
                          Arapahoe & 30th                       X
                          Baseline & 30th                       X
                          Spruce & Broadway                     X
                          30th & Walnut
                          Broadway & 18th                       X
                          Pearl & 28th                          X
                          Colorado & Regent
                          Regent & Broadway                     X
                          Pleasant & Broadway                   X
                          Table Mesa & Broadway                 X
                          Valmont & 30th
                          Euclid & Broadway                     X
                          Canyon E/B north side & 14th          X
                          Arapahoe & 33rd                       X
                          17th & Athens
                          Arapahoe & 17th                       X
                          Conestoga & Arapahoe                  X
                          28th & Arapahoe                       X
                          Folsom & Canyon                       X
                          28th & Iris
                          University & Broadway                 X
                          28th & Walnut




In addition, at the request of the City of Boulder representatives on the Study team 9
more intersections (Table 3) were selected for their physical location within identified

                                              14
Bike or pedestrian corridors. The idea was to include locations where the intersection
was working well and to enhance the ability to compare corridor wide features instead of
only intersection features. The study panel identified the following corridors for this
consideration: ­ Folsom Street, Canyon Boulevard, Arapahoe Road, and Pearl Street ­
that were studied regardless of crash counts to determine what is working and what is not
working on a continuous facility with regard to pedestrian-related and bike-related
crashes.


                                          Table 3:
                               Additional Study Intersections

                            WB US 36 & Baseline
                            Canyon & 28th
                            Pearl & Folsom
                            Pearl & 30th
                            Colorado & 28th
                            Canyon & 26th
                            Broadway & 27th Way
                            Arapahoe &
                            Commerce/Eisenhower
                            Baseline & Mohawk
                            Baseline & Foothills




                                            15
IV.     SITE DATA COLLECTION

This section of the report documents the data collection performed at the selected study
intersections. The type of data collected included geometric design and traffic control
data, traffic volumes, and crash records. Each type of data is discussed below:


Geometric Design and Traffic Control Data

Geometric design data and traffic control features were collected in February and March
2007 by visiting each study intersection. The study intersections were visited by a
research team member along with the University of Colorado at Denver graduate students
who helped record the intersection data.


An "Intersection Data Collection Form" (Figure 1) was prepared to standardize the data
collection activity. The outline of the form followed the guidelines suggested by Federal
Highway Administration (FHWA) in its report Safety Effectiveness of Intersection Left
and Right-turn Lanes FHWA-RD-02-089 (Summary included on appendix page B-2 of
this report). The form was designed to document the observed site conditions and
operations, geometric features, traffic control data and presence or absence of any
mitigation measures to improve pedestrian safety. A sketch of a generic intersection was
also included on the form. The preliminary form along with the abbreviations being used
to record the data was forwarded to the study team for review. The revised Intersection
Data Collection Form was then used to record the intersection geometric design and
traffic control data.


Civil Engineering graduate students from the University of Colorado at Denver helped to
collect the intersection data. A training session was conducted for participating graduate
students to train them in data collection and recording process. Various fields on the
intersection data collection form and their relevance was explained to the graduate


                                            16
Figure 1: Intersection Data Collection Form




                    17
students. The collected data at each intersection was verified to check for any errors. The
graduate students were monitored throughout the data collection process. A total of 34
intersection data were recorded including the top 25 intersections with most crashes
(identified in Phase I) and the 9 corridor intersections with fewer crashes in the last five
years.


Traffic Volume Data

Traffic volume data were collected at ten of the study intersections. The following data
set was obtained at each intersection: (Refer Appendix E)


         Major and Minor Road ADTs within the study area for year 2005.


         Intersection turning movement counts for morning and evening peak periods.
         (Including pedestrian counts)


Pedestrian-Related and Bicycle-Related Crash Data

The pedestrian-related and bicycle related crash data for the five year period (20r1
through 2005) were obtained from the City of Boulder and entered in the modified
PBCAT database to create a comprehensive crash database during the Phase I of this
study. As mentioned in Phase I report, the crash database was prepared by coding the
accident reports received from the City of Boulder. Hence, the accuracy of the database
depended upon the accuracy of information available in the accident reports. While
reviewing and coding the accidents, a number of important parameters were found
missing due to lack of consistency in describing the crash or drawing the crash diagram.
Hence, the Phase I report provided a list of important parameters that would be helpful to
have explicitly recorded on each crash report in order to improve the accuracy of the data
collected in crash reports.


                                            18
For the Phase II analysis, the crash data for top 25 intersections and another 9 comparison
intersections were extracted from the comprehensive PBCAT database. In some cases,
the computerized data were supplemented with collision diagrams prepared by manual or
computer means to better understand the crash record at a particular intersection.




                                            19
V.     DATA ANALYSIS

The geometric field data collected as part of phase II of this study was incorporated into
intersection specific data tables. The crash specific data entered in the PBCAT database
(Phase I) was merged with the intersection data to create spreadsheets or other reports
that could be used to allow for flexible analysis of the combined data. One of the more
fruitful analyses involved comparing the difference in proportions of the various vehicle
maneuvers with the presence or absence of geometric features.


As described in the above section, vehicle and pedestrian counts were taken at selected
study intersections. While this information was useful in terms of describing the amount
of vehicle and non-motorized use of the studied intersections, within this specific study, it
was difficult to obtain significant results based on the vehicle, pedestrian, and cyclist
volumes. The data is provided in the database compiled as part of this study and should
prove useful in future studies.


The crashes were grouped by approach to an intersection. Each approach could have
different geometric features from the number and type of approach lanes to left-turn
signal control (permitted, protected/permitted, protected only) to physical features such as
center medians and right-turn bypass islands, In these analyses, the geometric features
were associated with the vehicle approach. It was not distinguished where the vehicle
struck the pedestrian or cyclist. The vehicle encounters pedestrian and cyclists paths both
entering the intersection and then again leaving the intersection. If, for example, a
crosswalk were marked on the vehicle's entering leg and not on the exiting leg, the
analysis considered the vehicle to be on an approach with a marked crosswalk, even if the
actual collision occurred in the unmarked, exiting leg of the intersection. If desired, the
information in the database could be used to determine exiting leg features encountered
in addition to the approach leg features. For the purposes of this study, the features




                                             20
associated with the approach leg were assumed to have a greater influence on the nature
of pedestrian and bicycle related crashes.


Because of the structure of the data tables, this database has an enormous wealth of
information that can continue to be used by CDOT, and the City of Boulder to continue
to add to the available data as well as test other relationships. The ultimate goal of this
study was to generate a preliminary guidance for the use of various features to enhance
the safety of non-motorized users of the right of way. This design tool is provided as
Appendix D.


Unless otherwise noted, the level of significance used to test the strength of the
correlations described in the Results and Conclusions section was a 90% confidence
interval.




                                             21
VI.    RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS

Descriptive Statistics

In terms of raw numbers, the following results were obtained for the 34 studied
intersections


       Out of 208 accidents at top 25 intersections, nearly 70% of the crashes involved
       collision with a bicycle. 30% of the crashes involved collision with pedestrians.
       Of the pedestrian crashes, just over 10% involved school age children. This
       amounts to 3% of the total number of crashes reported.


       Over half of those 208 accidents occurred at intersection locations (59%), while
       17% occurred at a driveway access followed by non-intersection urban locations
       where 11% crashes occurred.


       Most of the crashes at these locations occurred on a leveled roadway (77%),
       during daylight (77%), when the road was dry (89%), with no adverse weather
       condition (89%).


When Do Bike/Pedestrians Collision Occur?

Time of Day: Collisions can occur at any time and are considered as random events, but
there are trends involving the time of occurrence. Bicycle and pedestrian collisions
occurred in the last five years along Broadway Street, Arapahoe Road, Canyon
Boulevard, Pearl Street, Folsom Street, and Baseline Road corridors by time of day are
shown in the graph below.




                                          22
                                             Figure 2: Crashes by Time of Day


                                             Crashes by Time of Day

                     120
                                                     108
                     100                                         100
 Number of Crashes




                      80

                      60                61                                 63


                      40       40

                      20
                                                                                     13      13
                                                                                                       4
                       0
                           6-9 AM   9 AM -     Noon - 3    3-6 PM      6-9 PM    9 PM - Midnight   3-6 AM
                                    Noon         PM                             Midnight - 3 AM
                                                            Time of Day




Geometric Findings

Not surprisingly, many of the relationships between crash patterns and vehicle maneuvers
were statistically insignificant. However, because of the number of data points collected
and the number of approaches (the 34 intersection had 96 approaches with related
crashes) used in the study, some useful statistically significant patterns were discovered.
These relationships were used in developing the design guidance tool provided as an
appendix to this report as well as to point out topics for future studies.




                                                            23
   Exclusive Right-turn Lanes


      o The data analyzed showed that the number of bicycle and pedestrian
          crashes involving right-turn vehicle maneuvers was significantly higher at
          locations where exclusive turn lanes existed and bypass islands did not
          exist.


          Where channelizing islands did exist, both with and without exclusive
          right-turn lanes, there was no significant difference in the proportion of
          right-turn related crashes.


      o Conclusion ­ Where exclusive right-turn lanes exist, right-turn
          channelizing islands should be considered.           This result is somewhat
          counter-intuitive and contrary to results of other studies involving free
          right-turns. Most of the approaches included in this study were not free
          right-turns. The right-turning vehicles typically had no acceleration lane
          and were required to yield to cross traffic, slowing the vehicles.


          A possible explanation for this result is that where right-turn channelizing
          islands exist, the conflicts to the right-turning driver were dealt with
          separately. When entering the channelizing island area, the driver could
          possibly give more attention to the pedestrian and bicycle traffic before
          approaching    the    yield   line   and   looking    for   vehicle   conflicts.


          Where no channelizing island existed, vehicles conceivably approach the
          stop bar, look to their left for cross traffic and do not recheck for
          pedestrians or bicyclists before completing their right-turn maneuver.


          Another possibility explaining the difference could be the City of


                                         24
          Boulder's use of raised crossings to a channelizing island. While the
          relationship between raised and unraised crossings was found to be
          insignificant (see results described in insignificant relationships below)
          they could be influencing this result.


   Shared Right-turn Lanes


      o In a comparison similar to the previously described right turn island
          analysis, the use of a shared right-turn lane was compared to exclusive
          right-turn lanes. In this analysis, shared lanes had a significantly lower
          proportion of right-turn crashes than locations where exclusive right-turn
          lanes were present.      This result is consistent with the island results
          described above and help to indicate that where exclusive right-turn lanes
          are provided, right-turn channelizing islands should also be considered.
          Based on the results of previous research, this may not be the case when
          an acceleration lane for the right-turning vehicles is provided.


      o Conclusion ­ Shared right-turn lanes did not appear to be less safe than
          other right-turn provisions. Previous studies (see literature review) have
          shown shared lanes to be somewhat less safe than exclusive lanes. With
          the information from the island analysis it appears that the presence or
          absence of islands for right-turning maneuvers has a stronger effect than
          the effect of a shared right-turn lane.




                                        25
   Painted Crosswalks


      o An analysis of the proportion of vehicle maneuver and the presence or
         absence of a marked cross walk was completed. In a result consistent with
         other studies of uncontrolled pedestrian crossings, the proportion of right-
         turn maneuvers was significantly higher where painted crosswalks existed.
         As has been hypothesized elsewhere, this could be the result of both driver
         and pedestrian/cyclist behavior. Pedestrians and cyclists may be slightly
         less cautious where cross walks are marked and drivers making right-turns
         have their attention focused on vehicles to their left, away from where
         pedestrians and cyclists are likely to be located.


      o In a separate result, the proportion of straight vehicle maneuvers was
         significantly less where crosswalks were marked than where left
         unmarked. To help determine which maneuver was having the stronger
         effect on the significance of the crosswalks impact on the proportion of
         crashes, the difference of proportions was compared for right-turn crashes
         and left-turn crashes (ignoring straight crashes) and again for straight and
         left-turn crashes.   From this data, it appears that marked crosswalks
         significantly reduce the proportion of crashes involving vehicles going
         straight through an intersection. - Much more so than is offset by the slight
         but significant increase in the proportion of right-turn crashes at marked
         crosswalks.


         These results need to be studied further however, as the locations where
         crosswalks were unmarked in this analysis were in all but one case also
         locations with non standard geometry (T-intersections or offset
         intersections).   In the one standard approach where crossmarks were
         "unmarked", colored pavement was used to indicate a pedestrian space in


                                       26
          the intersection. For the purposes of this study, the data collection process
          only considered standard markings to be marked crosswalks.


      o   Conclusion ­ Where intersections are controlled and where right-turning
          volumes are relatively low, marked crosswalks should be considered to
          possibly reduce the number of crashes involving vehicles going straight
          through an intersection. Where right-turning volumes are relatively high,
          leaving crosswalks unmarked should be considered or other improvements
          should be considered in conjunction with the installation of painted
          crosswalks. Further study needs to be conducted.


   Left-turn Signal Phasing


      o Left-turn signal phasing, or more specifically, the use of protected only
          left-turn signal phasing was associated with significantly lower
          proportions of left-turn accidents.


      o Conclusion ­ Where left-turning vehicles have the potential to cause
          conflicts with high pedestrian or cyclist movements, protected left-turn
          phasing should be considered. As is the case with protected left-turns
          significantly reducing vehicle/vehicle conflicts, it is intuitively obvious
          that separating the pedestrian movement from the left-turning movement
          would result in fewer conflicts and fewer crashes.


   Speed Limits


      o The impact of speed limits on the proportion of vehicle crashes was
          studied with approach speed limits grouped into three categories; less than


                                        27
          35 mph, 35 mph, and greater than 35 mph. The results of this analysis
          indicated that the proportion of crashes involving vehicles going straight
          through an intersection were significantly higher on approaches with a
          speed limit of greater than 35 mph.


      o Conclusion ­ Where pedestrians and bicyclists cross high speed
          approaches, special consideration should be given to alert both the
          pedestrian/cyclist and the driver to the crossing.     Where feasible and
          consistent with engineering studies, efforts to reduce vehicle approach
          speed should be considered.


   Double Left-turns


      o Where double left-turns were provided on an approach, the proportion of
          left-turning related crashes was significantly higher. In what could be an
          aberration or could be a useful predictor, the proportion of right-turn
          crashes was significantly lower on approaches with double left-turn lanes.


      o Conclusion- With the earlier described result indicating that protected
          only left-turn phasing was associated with a lower proportion of left-turn
          related crashes, the increase in left-turn proportion on double left
          approaches is likely associated with locations where double lefts are
          provided without protected only phasing. This result reinforces that where
          left-turn conflicts with pedestrians or bicyclists occur, protected only
          phasing should be considered.


          Since there is no apparent relationship or potential cause and effect
          associated with why double left-turns would reduce right-turn crashes, it is



                                        28
         possible that right-turn crashes could be used to predict what the number
         of crashes would have been had the double left-turns been mitigated.
         More research needs to be done to determine whether this result is relevant
         or a meaningless correlation.


   Number of Through Lanes


      o The relationship between the proportions of crashes and the number of
         through lanes provided on an approach was analyzed. Three significant
         results were obtained.      In a somewhat counter-intuitive result, the
         proportion of right-turn crashes on roadways with 0 or 1 through lane (0ne
         "T" intersection was included in the analysis) the proportion of right-turn
         crashes was significantly higher than the overall proportion.          The
         proportion of straight crashes was significantly lower on these same
         roads.


         Additionally, on roadways with two or more through lanes on an
         approach, right-turn crashes were under-represented.


      o Conclusion ­ Since roads with fewer through lanes tend to be collectors
         and local roadways, it is likely that the proportion of turning movements
         on these smaller roadways is higher than on the roads with two or more
         through lanes. These results indicate that on smaller roadways, attention
         should be given to mitigating right-turn conflicts.




                                         29
   Other Geometric relationships analyzed


                                     o Many other relationships were analyzed with no significant difference in
                                           the proportion of vehicle maneuver crash types. These included:


   Number of Driveways within 250 Feet of Intersection ­ The results below include
   all 34 intersections studied in detail as part of this Phase 2 work.


                                     o The presence of driveways within 250 feet of an intersection appears to be
                                           associated with more reported pedestrian and bicycle related crashes.
                                           Where 1-4 driveways were present there was roughly ½ of a crash more in
                                           the five year period per approach than where no driveways existed.
                                           Where more than 4 driveways were present 1 ¼ to 1.5 additional crashes
                                           were recorded for the five year period.


                                                     Figure 3: Additional Crashes per Approach


                                                              Additional Crashes per Approach


                                     1.6

                                     1.4
   Additional Crashes per Approach




                                     1.2

                                      1

                                     0.8

                                     0.6

                                     0.4

                                     0.2

                                      0
                                               0         1          2            3              4   5        6
                                                                          # of Driveways




                                                                         30
      o Conclusion ­ As indicated in the Phase I research and other research, a
          substantial number of pedestrian and bicycle related crashes occur at
          driveways. The graphic above suggests that where driveways are present
          near an intersection, the number of crashes associated with that
          intersection approach rises. The graph also suggests that where driveways
          occur with 250 feet of an intersection, the number should be limited to
          four or less. When more than that number of driveways exists on an
          approach the expected number of crashes appears to rise dramatically. In
          the analysis done as part of this study no reason as to why one to four
          driveways would have similar crash numbers while 5 or more increased
          the number of crashes. While this pattern is interesting and worthy of
          future research, the pattern was not significant using a test for differences
          in proportions. Further analysis should be done to determine if there is
          significance to the pattern expressed in this data.


   Raised Crosswalks at Channelizing Islands


      o In this analysis, total crashes and right-turn crashes that occurred at an
          approach with channelizing island were compared with the total crashes
          and right-turn crashes that occurred at an approach with channelizing
          islands that has raised crosswalks. The proportion of right-turn crashes to
          total crashes at both the approaches was found to be similar.


      o Conclusion ­ On approaches with right-turn lanes with channelizing
          islands and where raised crosswalks were provided the proportion of
          crashes occurring were not significantly different than on approaches
          without raised crosswalks. However, field observations indicate that raised
          crosswalks indeed reduce the speed of the right turning vehicles and may
          prove to be useful in reducing the intensity of a bicycle-vehicle or

                                        31
         pedestrian-vehicle related crash. Also, as indicated in the discussion of
         channelized islands above, the raised crosswalks may be having an effect
         that has not been identified with the data and tests used in this study.


   Attached versus Detached Sidewalks


      o In this analysis, total pedestrian and bicycle related crashes at approaches
         with attached sidewalk were compared with the total pedestrian and
         bicycle related crashes at approaches with detached crosswalks. The data
         analyzed showed no significant difference in crashes at both attached and
         detached sidewalks.


      o Conclusion ­ Approaches with attached sidewalks does not appear to be
         less safe than the approaches with detached sidewalks.


   Raised Median Divided Approach


      o The impact of raised divided median on the proportion of pedestrian and
         bicycle related crashes at an approach was studied. The results indicated
         that the presence of a raised median at an approach does not seem to
         impact the proportion of crashes. The statistical analysis indicated no
         significant difference in proportion of crashes at an approach without
         raised median and at an approach with raised median.


      o Conclusion ­ Other study results indicate providing raised medians on
         multi-lane roads can reduce the pedestrian crash risk. The presence of
         raised medians discourages bicyclists and pedestrians from crossing a road
         at mid-block locations. However, on high speed/high volume streets, even


                                       32
          without a raised median, pedestrians or bicyclists tend to cross the street at
          designated crosswalk locations.


   Curb Parking within 250' of Intersection


      o In this analysis, the relationship between the number of crashes and the
          approaches with curb parking within 250' of intersection was analyzed.
          The analysis result indicated no significant difference in the proportion of
          crashes at an approach with curb parking and without curb parking.


      o Conclusion ­ This result was expected since the statistical analysis result
          for raised median divided approach indicated no significant pattern. Also,
          the crash database does not have a large number of dart-out crashes found
          typically at locations with curb parking.


   Right Turn on Red Prohibitions


      o The impact of right turn on red (RTOR) prohibition on the proportion of
          vehicle crashes was studied. The results of this analysis indicated that the
          proportion of crashes at an intersection with RTOR prohibitions was not
          significantly higher at intersections with no RTOR prohibitions.


      o Conclusion ­ Other studies indicate that RTOR prohibitions can reduce
          the occurrence of pedestrian and cyclist related crashes. This result only
          indicates that this relationship is not significant in this data set.




                                         33
Corridor Relationships

In examining the corridors identified by the Study Panel the total crashes recorded for the
corridors were compared. In the Figure below, the total number of crashes occurring on
each corridor is reported.


                                                           Figure 4:
                            Bicycle-Related and Pedestrian-Related Crashes: Year 2001 through 2005



                               Bicycle-Related and Pedestrian-Related Crash
                                            Year 2001 through 2005
                      140
                                 127

                      120

                                               99
                      100
  Number of Crashes




                      80

                                                                                         57
                      60
                                                             46
                                                                             42
                      40                                                                               33

                      20

                       0
                              Broadway      Arapahoe       Canyon       Pearl St.    Folsom St.      Baseline
                                 St.           Rd.          Blvd.                                      Rd.
                                                                  Corridor




                                                             34
While this indicates that the Broadway corridor has the most crashes, the per intersection
number of crashes was also reviewed. This is presented in Figure 5.


                                                                Figure 5:
                                    Average Number of Crashes per Intersection: Year 2001 through 2005


                                           Average Number of Crashes per Intersection:
                                                    Year 2001 through 2005


                                12.00                                                                    11.00

                                10.00
    Average Number of Crashes




                                 8.00

                                 6.00
                                                                                           4.38
                                 4.00                 3.19        3.29
                                          2.95
                                                                               2.47
                                 2.00

                                 0.00
                                        Broadway Arapahoe        Canyon      Pearl St.    Folsom     Baseline
                                           St.      Rd.           Blvd.                     St.        Rd.
                                                                        Corridor




Comparing these two graphs, clearly the Baseline Corridor has a high number of crashes
at a low number of intersections while the Broadway Corridor has a low number of
crashes at many different intersections. The data reflected in the second graph is the
average number of crashes at intersections where crashes occur.                                    There are many
intersections along all of these corridors where no crashes were reported.



                                                                   35
In an effort to glean some useful design information from the corridor information, the
data for on street and off street bicycle facilities was analyzed to see if any patterns
occurred to determine if there was a difference in the safety of the two types of facilities.
The on street vs. off street facility data are presented in Table 4 below.


These data suggest that where off street bicycle facilities are provided, the number of
crashes per intersection is lower than were on-street facilities are provided. This result
however was not statistically significant. While this result hints that off-street facilities
provide some safety benefit, many other questions need to be answered with future
research including whether the type of facility is more important than the other geometric
features. For example in the data set as a whole (not just on the identified corridors), of
the 503 crashes reported as either at an intersection or at a driveway, 110, or greater than
20% occurred at driveways. While vehicle counts were not taken at any driveways as
part of this study, it is safe to assume that volumes are much lower at driveways than at
intersections indicating that the rate of crashes at driveways is extremely high. Whether
off-street or on-street facilities are provided, special consideration needs to be given to
both intersections and driveway crossings.


Other relationships analyzed with either no significant differences or where too little data
was available for meaningful comparison included; shoulder presence, shoulder width,
shoulder condition, and development type (commercial, residential, mixed use).




                                             36
                                               Table 4: On Street Vs. Off Street Bike Facilities

                                                                                                                                            Bike
Intersection                             NB Bike Lane           EB Bike Lane               SB Bike Lane          WB Bike Lane             Crashes
                                      On Street Off Street   On Street Off Street      On Street Off Street   On Street Off Street        on     off
Folsom & Arapahoe                        X                                                X                                                  7
Baseline Road & 29th Street                                      X                                                X                          7
Broadway & Baseline Road
Arapahoe & 30th Street
Baseline Road & 30th Street                                      X                          X                     X                         6
Spruce St. & Broadway
Walnut Ave. & 30th Street                                        X                                                X                         8
Broadway & 18th Street                                                                               X                                             5
Pearl Street & 28th Street                                       X                                                X                         7
Regent Drive & Colorado                                          X                                                X                         8
Regent Drive & Broadway                                                                                                        X                   6
Pleasant & Broadway                                                                                  X            X                         3      3
Table Mesa Drive & Broadway                                                                                       X                         6
Valmont Road & 30th Street               X                       X                          X                                               6
Euclid & Broadway                                                                                    X                                             3
Canyon E/B North side & 14th street
Arapahoe Ave & 33rd street
Athens Street & 17th Street
Arapahoe Ave & 17th Street               X                                                  X                                               4
Conestoga & Arapahoe Avenue              X                                                  X                                               4
28th Street & Arapahoe Avenue
Folsom Street & Canyon Boulevard         X                                                  X                                               5
Iris Avenue & 28th Street
University & Broadway                                            X                          X                     X                          5
Walnut Street & 28th Street                                      X                                                X                          5
                                                                                                                  Total # of Crashes        81     17
                                                                                                              Total # of Intersections      14      4
                                                                                                                             Average     5.786   4.25




                                                                  37
VII    RECOMMENDATIONS

While this study points to important, useful, and statistically significant differences in
various geometric features and their impact on the occurrence of bicycle and pedestrian
related crashes, this study is in no way exhaustive. The relationship between various
features makes definitive conclusions difficult. The significant results and the design
guidance tool should be used with caution and is not a substitute for good engineering
judgment. As with most research the answers found in this study lead to more questions
and more possible research to better understand the interaction of pedestrians, cyclists,
and motorists.


General Recommendations


It is the strong recommendation of the project team that the database created as the basis
of this study be augmented to include an ongoing data entry and data verification
program. Significant effort was expended to make certain that the data entering the
database used in this study reflected actual conditions of the crashes reported (Phase I of
the study) and future data being entered into the database should receive similar
verification procedures. As pointed out in Phase I, consistent entry of data is essential to
being able to draw valid conclusions from the data. The PBCAT software proved very
useful in working as a foundation for the entry and classification of the various crashes
entered into the database.    Combining the crash specific information with approach
specific information provided the opportunity to make useful comparisons among the
geometric features found in the Right of Way. As more crashes are recorded and as the
geometric information of more intersections are recorded, the more useful and more
specific the conclusions drawn can be.


The more difficult task that potentially could be improved in a future study is the use of
"negative data".    Since this study focused on reported crashes, it was difficult to
                                            38
determine useful information at locations where few or no crashes occurred. We were
unable to answer questions along the lines of "what is working well" if there was nothing
working poorly with which to compare. An example is in the corridor comparisons. The
Baseline corridor shows a rate of 11 crashes per intersection where crashes occurred.
There are many other intersections along the corridor where no crashes occurred.
Perhaps a future study can be designed to compare intersections of similar geometric
design and volumes to compare near misses, conflicts, and crashes.


Another potential use of continuing to update the database would be to utilize the
geometric changes of intersections where crashes occur to perform before and after
studies of the various changes.


Specific Recommendations


More specific research should be done to investigate the cause and effect of both the
statistically significant patterns discovered in this study as well as the interesting though
statistically insignificant patterns.


The relationship between the presence of right turn bypass islands and whether or not an
exclusive right turn lane exists is important to address in a future study.             The
conventional wisdom at present is that these islands pose a risk to pedestrians and cyclists
as the right turning vehicles are uncontrolled until they reach their yield line past the
pedestrian crossing. The data collected for this study suggests that this may not be the
case where no acceleration lane is provided. Also a more in depth study specifically
designed to determine the impact of the use of raised crossings needs to be developed.


The crosswalk results also beg for additional study. Why do marked crosswalks appear
to reduce the occurrence of crashes where vehicles are traveling straight through an

                                             39
intersection while they appear to increase the occurrence of crashes involving right
turning vehicles?             Since these results involve a high number of non-standard
intersections, is there another design element that could be used in conjunction with
marked crosswalks that could mitigate the right turn increase while preserving the
reduction of straight crashes achieved at marked crosswalks at intersections?                                          For
example, would simply painting the crosswalks more often or making the crosswalk signs
more obvious have a beneficial impact.


There are many other relationships and combinations of relationships that could be
studied using the existing data, the research team encourages CDOT and the City of
Boulder to make the database available to other researchers and to continue to add data to
the existing work completed to date.




\\De1-s06\Jobs\_Transportation\072275 CDOT DTD-Bike Ped Study\manage\report\Final 29 June 2007\Report_Phase II draft
20070629 Final.doc




                                                            40
GLOSSARY

Intersection Approach ­ Leg of an intersection on which vehicles enter the intersection.

Detached ­ Pedestrian or cyclist travel way that is separated from the vehicle travel way
by any width of space not intend for travel parallel to the vehicle travel way. Examples
include; grass strip, brick pavers, landscaped area, etc.

Driveway ­ Any connection to the travel way defined by a path allowing vehicle access
crossing a pedestrian or cyclist facility that does not meet the definition of an
intersection.

Intersection ­ The crossing of two named vehicular travel ways. In all cases in this
study the crossings are controlled by either stop signs or signals.

NHTSA ­ National Highway Traffic Safety Administration

Right­Of­Way ­ Property owned by the State or Local government where travel-ways
exist.

Geometric Characteristics ­ the shapes of a travel way, striping, or other physical
features of an intersection or multi-use corridor.

On Street Facility ­ Marked bicycle lane on the same travel way as vehicle lanes

Off Street Facility ­ Marked or unmarked Facility that is separate from the vehicle travel
way. May be attached (such as an attached sidewalk or multi-use trail) or detached.

Multi-Use trail ­ Facility that allows use by both cyclists and pedestrians.

GIS ­ Geographical Information System

Half Signal ­ A half-signal is a pedestrian signal located at a stop-controlled T
intersection. Vehicular traffic on the side road must come to a stop before entering the
intersection, but pedestrians can push a button to get the main road traffic to stop.

HAWK Pedestrian Flasher ­ The High-intensity Activated crossWalK or HAWK
crossing is an extension of the traditional school bus flashing warning signal when
children are crossing the road and the European level or emergency crossing signal. The
signaling system is a combination of a beacon flasher and traffic control signaling
technique for marked crossings.

Marked Crosswalks ­ Crosswalks defined with pavement markings.

                                            41
APPENDIX A:


 References




    A-1
1. Stutts, J.C., W.W. Hunter, and W.E. Pein. Pedestrian-Vehicle Crash Types: An
   Update. In Transportation Research Record 1538, pp. 68-74, 1996.


2. Safety Effectiveness of Intersection Left and Right-Turn Lanes. U.S. Department of
   Transportation, Federal Highway Administration, Report #FHWA-RD-02-089,
   McLean, VA, 2002.


3. How to Develop a Pedestrian Safety Action Plan. Office of Safety Research and
   Development, U.S Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration,
   Report # FHWA-SA-05-12, McLean, VA, 2006.


4. SEMCOG Traffic Safety Manual. South-East Michigan Regional Council of
   Governments, September 1997.


5. King, M. Pedestrian Safety Through a Raised Median and Redesigned Intersections.
   In Transportation Research Record 1828, pp. 56-66, Transportation Research
   Board, Washington, D.C., 2003.


6. Retting, R.A., Ferguson, S.A. and McCarty, A.T. A Review of Evidence-Based
   Traffic Engineering Measures to Reduce Pedestrian Motor-Vehicle Crashes.
   Transportation   Research   Board    Annual     Conference    Paper   2004-002559,
   Transportation   Research   Board,      Washington,   D.C.,   2004.


7. Sandt, L., and Zegeer, C.V. Characteristics Related to Midblock Pedestrian-Vehicle
   Crashes and Potential Treatments. In Transportation Research Record 1982, pp.
   113-121, Transportation Research Board, Washington, D.C., 2006.




                                     A-2
8. Zegeer, C.V., Stewart, J.R., Huang, H., and Lagerwey, P. Safety Effects of Marked
   Versus Unmarked Crosswalks at Uncontrolled Locations. In Transportation Research
   Record 1723, pp. 56-68, Transportation Research Board, Washington, D.C., 2001.




                                      A-3
     APPENDIX B:


Summary of Selected Papers




           B-1
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                       File Name              : 17TH&ATHENSAM
                                                                                                                       Site Code              : 00000000
                                                                                                                       Start Date             : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                       Page No                :1


                                                                        Groups Printed- Unshifted
                         17TH ST                                     ATHENS                     17TH ST                                       ATHENS
                       Southbound                                   Westbound                 Northbound                                     Eastbound
 Start Time     Left    Thru Right                    Peds   Left   Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right               Peds   Left           Thru Right     Peds Int. Total
    07:00 AM      7       21     0                       6     1       0     1      0      0     20     1                 0     0               0     0        0        57
    07:15 AM     13       34     0                       1     4       0     0      0      0     31     3                 5     0               0     0        0        91
    07:30 AM      7       44     0                       5     5       0     2      0      0     32     4                 0     0               0     0        0        99
    07:45 AM      3       94     0                      39     3       0     4      0      0     55     3                 4     0               0     0        0       205
        Total    30      193     0                      51    13       0     7      0      0    138    11                 9     0               0     0        0       452

    08:00 AM      1        63                 0          6     2       0       1          2        0       49     9       3       0            0        0      0       136
    08:15 AM      0        58                 0          4     7       0       3          0        0       53     5       0       0            0        0      0       130
    08:30 AM      2        57                 0          6     4       0       3          1        0       48     6       3       0            0        0      0       130
    08:45 AM      3        63                 0         16     2       0       2          0        0       48     8       0       0            0        0      0       142
        Total     6       241                 0         32    15       0       9          3        0      198    28       6       0            0        0      0       538

  Grand Total    36      434                  0         83     28      0    16            3        0       336   39     15        0            0        0      0       990
   Apprch %     6.5      78.5                 0         15   59.6      0    34          6.4        0      86.2    10    3.8       0            0        0      0
     Total %    3.6      43.8                 0        8.4    2.8      0    1.6         0.3        0      33.9   3.9    1.5       0            0        0      0


                                                                                   17TH ST
                                                                            Out       In          Total
                                                                             352       553         905


                                                                               0  434           36   83
                                                                           Right Thru         Left Peds
                             0


                                       0




                                                                                                                               Right Thru
                         Total




                                   Left




                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                  16


                                                                                                                                                 75




                                                                                        North
                                                  0
                                   Peds Right Thru
                       ATHENS




                                                                                                                                               ATHENS
                             0
                          In




                                                                                                                                         0



                                                                                                                                                 In




                                                                            4/19/2007 07:00 AM
                                            0




                                                                                                                                                   47




                                                                            4/19/2007 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                               Left Peds
                                                                                                                                 28
                               0




                                                                            Unshifted
                         Out




                                                                                                                                               Total
                                      0




                                                                                                                                                122
                                                                                                                                       3




                                                                           Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                               0 336    39   15


                                                                             462       390         852
                                                                            Out       In          Total
                                                                                   17TH ST
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                       File Name              : 17TH&ATHENSPM
                                                                                                                       Site Code              : 00000000
                                                                                                                       Start Date             : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                       Page No                :1


                                                                        Groups Printed- Unshifted
                         17TH ST                                     ATHENS                     17TH ST                                       ATHENS
                       Southbound                                   Westbound                 Northbound                                     Eastbound
 Start Time     Left    Thru Right                    Peds   Left   Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right               Peds   Left           Thru Right     Peds Int. Total
    04:00 PM      8       22     0                       0     0       0     1      0      0     20     1                 6     0               0     0        0        58
    04:15 PM     13       35     0                       0     4       0     0      2      0     32     2                 5     0               0     0        0        93
    04:30 PM      7       45     0                       0     4       0     3      0      0     30     4                14     0               0     0        0       107
    04:45 PM      3       87     0                       0     2       0     3      1      0     53     2                49     0               0     0        0       200
        Total    31      189     0                       0    10       0     7      3      0    135     9                74     0               0     0        0       458

    05:00 PM      1        58                 0          0     2       0       1          3        0       48     8      12       0            0        0      0       133
    05:15 PM      0        57                 0          0     7       0       4          0        0       53     5       8       0            0        0      0       134
    05:30 PM      3        53                 0          0     4       0       2          1        0       46     6      11       0            0        0      0       126
    05:45 PM      2        67                 0          0     2       0       2          0        0       45     8      18       0            0        0      0       144
        Total     6       235                 0          0    15       0       9          4        0      192    27      49       0            0        0      0       537

  Grand Total    37      424                  0          0     25      0     16        7           0       327   36    123        0            0        0      0       995
   Apprch %       8        92                 0          0   52.1      0   33.3     14.6           0      67.3   7.4   25.3       0            0        0      0
     Total %    3.7      42.6                 0          0    2.5      0    1.6      0.7           0      32.9   3.6   12.4       0            0        0      0


                                                                                   17TH ST
                                                                            Out       In          Total
                                                                             343       461         804


                                                                               0  424           37    0
                                                                           Right Thru         Left Peds
                             0


                                       0




                                                                                                                               Right Thru
                         Total




                                   Left




                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                  16


                                                                                                                                                 73




                                                                                        North
                                                  0
                                   Peds Right Thru
                       ATHENS




                                                                                                                                               ATHENS
                             0
                          In




                                                                                                                                         0



                                                                                                                                                 In




                                                                            4/19/2007 04:00 PM
                                            0




                                                                                                                                                   48




                                                                            4/19/2007 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                               Left Peds
                                                                                                                                 25
                               0




                                                                            Unshifted
                         Out




                                                                                                                                               Total
                                      0




                                                                                                                                                121
                                                                                                                                       7




                                                                           Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                               0 327    36  123


                                                                             449       486         935
                                                                            Out       In          Total
                                                                                   17TH ST
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                         File Name        : 28TH&ARAPAHOEAM
                                                                                                                         Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                                                         Start Date       : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                         Page No          :1


                                                                             Groups Printed- Unshifted
                             28TH                                       ARAPAHOE                       28TH                                        ARAPAHOE
                         Southbound                                     Westbound                  Northbound                                      Eastbound
 Start Time     Left      Thru Right                     Peds   Left     Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right                 Peds   Left           Thru Right           Peds Int. Total
    07:00 AM     23        192    21                        0    35       101    21      0     46    170     41                  0    10              60    23              0       743
    07:15 AM     26        180    23                        1    30        83    15      0     39    241     35                  4    13              67    38              0       795
    07:30 AM     37        198    16                        1    29       133    30      2     42    273     53                  0     8              97    32              0       951
    07:45 AM     35        226    10                        0    39       141    47      1     29    301     47                  0     5             127    43              0     1051
        Total   121        796    70                        2   133       458   113      3    156    985    176                  4    36             351  136               0     3540

    08:00 AM     54          222            17              0    20      141      32           0       35       317     36       0     6             91             42      0     1013
    08:15 AM     40          216            14              0    37      166      48           0       34       289     51       2     9            142             29      0     1077
    08:30 AM     38          204            10              0    60      134      56           0       33       295     49       1    18            153             46      0     1097
    08:45 AM     54          207            17              0    45      188      53           0       46       288     45       0    11            146             43      0     1143
        Total   186          849            58              0   162      629     189           0      148      1189    181       3    44            532            160      0     4330

  Grand Total    307       1645        128                  2    295    1087    302            3      304      2174    357       7    80           883            296       0     7870
   Apprch %     14.7          79        6.1               0.1   17.5     64.4   17.9         0.2     10.7       76.5   12.6    0.2   6.4           70.1           23.5      0
     Total %      3.9       20.9        1.6                 0     3.7    13.8    3.8           0       3.9      27.6    4.5    0.1     1           11.2            3.8      0


                                                                                             28TH
                                                                                 Out           In      Total
                                                                                 2556         2082     4638


                                                                                  128 1645          307    2
                                                                                Right Thru         Left Peds
                            2778


                                         80




                                                                                                                                      Right Thru
                            Total




                                       Left




                                                                                                                                        302 1087


                                                                                                                                                      1547
                                                                                                                                                      Out




                                                                                             North
                                                   883
                            ARAPAHOE




                                                                                                                                                      ARAPAHOE
                                       Peds Right Thru
                                1259
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                         1687
                                                                                                                                                          In




                                                                                 4/19/2007 07:00 AM
                                              296




                                                                                 4/19/2007 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                      Left Peds
                                                                                                                                       295
                        1519




                                                                                 Unshifted
                        Out




                                                                                                                                                               Total
                                          0




                                                                                                                                                               3234
                                                                                                                                              3




                                                                                Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                 304 2174   357    7


                                                                                 2236         2842     5078
                                                                                 Out           In      Total
                                                                                             28TH
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                      File Name          : 28TH&ARAPAHOEPM
                                                                                                                      Site Code          : 00000000
                                                                                                                      Start Date         : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                      Page No            :1


                                                                           Groups Printed- Unshifted
                            28TH                                      ARAPAHOE                       28TH                                         ARAPAHOE
                        Southbound                                    Westbound                  Northbound                                       Eastbound
 Start Time     Left     Thru Right                     Peds   Left    Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right                 Peds   Left            Thru Right           Peds Int. Total
    04:00 PM     76       293     33                       0    80      140    49      0     40    262     23                  3    56              160    47              0     1262
    04:15 PM     55       295     30                       0   108      145    42      0     47    299     24                  1    69              166    39              0     1320
    04:30 PM     83       288     24                       1    82      124    61      1     41    267     40                  1    76              157    71              1     1318
    04:45 PM     59       274     23                       2    28      104   123      2     40    298     34                  0    45              202    60              0     1294
        Total   273      1150    110                       3   298      513   275      3    168 1126      121                  5   246              685  217               1     5194

    05:00 PM     67        298         29                  0    80     161      52           2       37       275     16       4    48             172             70      0     1311
    05:15 PM     61        287         26                  1    83     157      50           5       45       320     14       0    63             193             41      1     1347
    05:30 PM     51        289         28                  2    95     132      46           0       23       321     28       5    37             152             64      2     1275
    05:45 PM     59        255         23                  0    77     181      50           2       52       313     26       4    49             168             45      0     1304
        Total   238       1129        106                  3   335     631     198           9      157      1229     84      13   197             685            220      3     5237

  Grand Total   511       2279        216                  6   633    1144    473          12       325      2355    205     18     443           1370           437        4   10431
   Apprch %       17       75.7        7.2               0.2     28    50.6   20.9         0.5     11.2       81.1    7.1    0.6   19.7            60.8          19.4     0.2
     Total %     4.9       21.8        2.1               0.1    6.1      11    4.5         0.1       3.1      22.6      2    0.2     4.2           13.1           4.2       0


                                                                                           28TH
                                                                               Out           In      Total
                                                                               3271         3012     6283


                                                                                216 2279          511    6
                                                                              Right Thru         Left Peds
                           3939


                                       443




                                                                                                                                     Right Thru
                           Total




                                      Left




                                                                                                                                       473 1144


                                                                                                                                                     2086
                                                                                                                                                     Out




                                                                                           North
                                             437 1370
                           ARAPAHOE




                                                                                                                                                     ARAPAHOE
                                      Peds Right Thru
                               2254
                                In




                                                                                                                                                        2262
                                                                                                                                                         In




                                                                               4/19/2007 04:00 PM
                                                                               4/19/2007 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                     Left Peds
                                                                                                                                      633
                       1685




                                                                               Unshifted
                       Out




                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                         4




                                                                                                                                                              4348
                                                                                                                                            12




                                                                              Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                               325 2355   205   18


                                                                               3349         2903     6252
                                                                               Out           In      Total
                                                                                           28TH
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                       File Name             : 28TH&CANYONAM
                                                                                                                       Site Code             : 00000000
                                                                                                                       Start Date            : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                       Page No               :1


                                                                     Groups Printed- Unshifted
                           28TH                                   CANYON                       28TH                                           CANYON
                       Southbound                                Westbound                 Northbound                                        Eastbound
 Start Time     Left    Thru Right                 Peds   Left   Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right                  Peds   Left           Thru Right       Peds Int. Total
    07:00 AM      6      167     41                   1     5       6     5      1     77    148    12                    4    33              10    31          0       547
    07:15 AM      5      167     41                   1     7      15     4      2     80    184    17                    4    33              13    37          0       610
    07:30 AM     10      214     58                   2     3      19     2      1     86    197     8                    2    39              14    53          0       708
    07:45 AM     10      251     74                   2    10      15    10      3    112    246    21                    1    46              23    63          0       887
        Total    31      799    214                   6    25      55    21      7    355    775    58                   11   151              60   184          0     2752

    08:00 AM      8       218     57                  1     8      16       9           1      118       220     13       2    65             27        64       0      827
    08:15 AM     13       203     49                  3    17      19       5           5      107       249     15       5    62             21        70       0      843
    08:30 AM     12       176     58                  2    10      29      13           4      109       240     15       3    57             24        66       0      818
    08:45 AM     10       180     73                  2    11      21       4           2       92       243     15       1    73             41        53       0      821
        Total    43       777    237                  8    46      85      31          12      426       952     58      11   257            113       253       0     3309

  Grand Total    74     1576     451                 14     71    140      52          19      781      1727    116     22     408           173       437       0     6061
   Apprch %     3.5      74.5    21.3               0.7   25.2   49.6    18.4         6.7     29.5       65.3    4.4    0.8   40.1            17       42.9      0
     Total %    1.2        26     7.4               0.2    1.2     2.3    0.9         0.3     12.9       28.5    1.9    0.4     6.7           2.9       7.2      0


                                                                                      28TH
                                                                          Out           In      Total
                                                                          2187         2115     4302


                                                                           451 1576           74   14
                                                                         Right Thru         Left Peds
                         2390


                                  408




                                                                                                                                Right Thru
                         Total




                                 Left




                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                   52


                                                                                                                                                363




                                                                                      North
                                             173
                                 Peds Right Thru
                       CANYON




                                                                                                                                               CANYON
                                                                                                                                       140
                          1018
                           In




                                                                                                                                                 In




                                                                          4/19/2007 07:00 AM
                                                                                                                                                  282
                                        437




                                                                          4/19/2007 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                Left Peds
                                                                                                                                  71
                         1372




                                                                          Unshifted
                         Out




                                                                                                                                               Total
                                    0




                                                                                                                                                645
                                                                                                                                       19




                                                                         Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                          781 1727   116   22


                                                                          2084         2646     4730
                                                                          Out           In      Total
                                                                                      28TH
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                        File Name            : 28TH&CANYONPM
                                                                                                                        Site Code            : 00000000
                                                                                                                        Start Date           : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                        Page No              :1


                                                                      Groups Printed- Unshifted
                           28TH                                    CANYON                       28TH                                          CANYON
                       Southbound                                 Westbound                 Northbound                                       Eastbound
 Start Time     Left    Thru Right                 Peds   Left    Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right                  Peds   Left          Thru Right       Peds Int. Total
    04:00 PM     28      269     45                   7    27       29    18      3     82    290    24                   11    73             48   101          2     1057
    04:15 PM     17      231     40                   8    40       43    20      9     79    305    22                    4    85             68   112          3     1086
    04:30 PM     21      293     49                   8    21       44    17      5     73    295    23                    5    66             52    88          6     1066
    04:45 PM     20      242     53                   7    32       36    22      9     79    267    18                    2    94             57   101          2     1041
        Total    86     1035    187                  30   120      152    77     26    313 1157      87                   22   318            225   402         13     4250

    05:00 PM     20      276      51                  7    39       43      26           4       83       281     17       6    71            51        86       9     1070
    05:15 PM     27      252      65                  7    52       30      17           9       99       310     21       6    94            62       104       8     1163
    05:30 PM     28      285      45                  7    29       39      17           7       67       280     20       5    91            53        94       6     1073
    05:45 PM     21      257      65                  5    34       47      18           8       85       324     12       5    80            55        94       8     1118
        Total    96     1070     226                 26   154      159      78          28      334      1195     70      22   336           221       378      31     4424

  Grand Total   182     2105     413                 56    274     311    155          54       647      2352    157     44    654            446      780      44     8674
   Apprch %      6.6     76.4      15                 2   34.5    39.2    19.5         6.8     20.2       73.5    4.9    1.4     34          23.2      40.5     2.3
     Total %     2.1     24.3     4.8               0.6     3.2     3.6    1.8         0.6       7.5      27.1    1.8    0.5    7.5            5.1        9     0.5


                                                                                       28TH
                                                                           Out           In      Total
                                                                           3161         2756     5917


                                                                            413 2105          182   56
                                                                          Right Thru         Left Peds
                         3295


                                  654




                                                                                                                                Right Thru
                         Total




                                 Left




                                                                                                                                  155



                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                                785




                                                                                       North
                                             446
                                 Peds Right Thru
                       CANYON




                                                                                                                                               CANYON
                                                                                                                                       311
                          1924
                           In




                                                                                                                                                 In




                                                                           4/19/2007 04:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                  794
                                        780




                                                                           4/19/2007 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                Left Peds
                                                                                                                                 274
                         1371




                                                                           Unshifted
                         Out




                                                                                                                                               Total
                                   44




                                                                                                                                               1579
                                                                                                                                       54




                                                                          Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                           647 2352   157   44


                                                                           3159         3200     6359
                                                                           Out           In      Total
                                                                                       28TH
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                       File Name        : 28TH&COLORADOAM
                                                                                                                       Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                                                       Start Date       : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                       Page No          :1


                                                                            Groups Printed- Unshifted
                            28TH                                       COLORADO                       28TH                                        COLORADO
                        Southbound                                     Westbound                  Northbound                                      Eastbound
 Start Time     Left     Thru Right                     Peds   Left     Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right                 Peds   Left           Thru Right           Peds Int. Total
    07:00 AM      9       185    12                        0    14        38     2      0     40    269    3                    0     6              18    28              0       624
    07:15 AM      9       237    12                        2    10        42     1      1     51    276    4                    2     5              19    27              1       699
    07:30 AM     10       269    22                        1    14        81     4      2     81    362    1                    3     8              25    21              0       904
    07:45 AM     13       278    38                        3    14       105    13      1    102    419    0                    3     5              28    32              3     1057
        Total    41       969    84                        6    52       266    20      4    274 1326      8                    8    24              90  108               4     3284

    08:00 AM     25        224         28                  2     10      78       14           1       82       423     0       0    11             30             30      0      958
    08:15 AM     22        280         26                  3     17      71        7           2       85       358     2       2    11             30             28      1      945
    08:30 AM     10        284         29                  4     13      72       12           2       87       356     3       0    11             30             30      0      943
    08:45 AM     15        220         24                  5     15      83        6           3      112       356     0       4    13             21             29      0      906
        Total    72       1008        107                 14     55     304       39           8      366      1493     5       6    46            111            117      1     3752

  Grand Total   113       1977        191                 20    107      570     59          12       640      2819    13     14     70             201          225        5    7036
   Apprch %      4.9       85.9        8.3               0.9   14.3     76.2     7.9         1.6     18.4       80.9   0.4    0.4    14            40.1          44.9       1
     Total %     1.6       28.1        2.7               0.3     1.5      8.1    0.8         0.2       9.1      40.1   0.2    0.2     1              2.9          3.2     0.1


                                                                                             28TH
                                                                                 Out           In      Total
                                                                                 2948         2301     5249


                                                                                  191 1977          113   20
                                                                                Right Thru         Left Peds
                           1902


                                        70




                                                                                                                                     Right Thru
                           Total




                                      Left




                                                                                                                                                     Out
                                                                                                                                        59


                                                                                                                                                      327




                                                                                             North
                                                  201




                                                                                                                                                     COLORADO
                           COLORADO




                                      Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                            570
                                501
                               In




                                                                                                                                                         In




                                                                                 4/19/2007 07:00 AM
                                                                                                                                                          748
                                             225




                                                                                 4/19/2007 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                     Left Peds
                                                                                                                                      107
                       1401




                                                                                 Unshifted
                       Out




                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                         5




                                                                                                                                                              1075
                                                                                                                                            12




                                                                                Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                 640 2819    13   14


                                                                                 2309         3486     5795
                                                                                 Out           In      Total
                                                                                             28TH
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                       File Name        : 28TH&COLORADOPM
                                                                                                                       Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                                                       Start Date       : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                       Page No          :1


                                                                            Groups Printed- Unshifted
                            28TH                                       COLORADO                       28TH                                        COLORADO
                        Southbound                                     Westbound                  Northbound                                      Eastbound
 Start Time     Left     Thru Right                     Peds   Left     Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right                 Peds   Left           Thru Right           Peds Int. Total
    04:00 PM     34       333     30                       0    27        44    13      2     56    289     2                   2    23              71  104               2     1032
    04:15 PM     30       349     32                       5    21        71    15      2     64    345     9                   1    32              87    98              4     1165
    04:30 PM     33       330     29                       0    33        60    12      0     77    310     2                   0    26             105  125               3     1145
    04:45 PM     32       441     27                       0    41        47    17      0     82    374     5                   4    41             102  105               4     1322
        Total   129      1453    118                       5   122       222    57      4    279 1318      18                   7   122             365  432              13     4664

    05:00 PM     35        349         24                  2    39       76       11           3       94       321     5       2    49             76             87      0     1173
    05:15 PM     16        387         31                  4    32       77       16           4       80       373     5       4    30             89             73      0     1221
    05:30 PM     28        341         22                  1    34       58        8           1       61       316     6       1    46             89             84      0     1096
    05:45 PM     25        421         24                  0    26       40       17           1       55       334     4       0    29             72             71      1     1120
        Total   104       1498        101                  7   131      251       52           9      290      1344    20       7   154            326            315      1     4610

  Grand Total   233       2951        219                 12    253      473    109          13       569      2662    38     14    276            691           747      14     9274
   Apprch %      6.8       86.4        6.4               0.4   29.8     55.8    12.9         1.5     17.3       81.1   1.2    0.4    16             40           43.2     0.8
     Total %     2.5       31.8        2.4               0.1     2.7      5.1    1.2         0.1       6.1      28.7   0.4    0.2     3             7.5           8.1     0.2


                                                                                             28TH
                                                                                 Out           In      Total
                                                                                 3047         3415     6462


                                                                                  219 2951          233   12
                                                                                Right Thru         Left Peds
                           2989


                                       276




                                                                                                                                     Right Thru
                           Total




                                      Left




                                                                                                                                       109



                                                                                                                                                     Out
                                                                                                                                                      962




                                                                                             North
                                                  691




                                                                                                                                                     COLORADO
                           COLORADO




                                      Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                            473
                               1728
                                In




                                                                                                                                                         In




                                                                                 4/19/2007 04:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                          848
                                             747




                                                                                 4/19/2007 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                     Left Peds
                                                                                                                                      253
                       1261




                                                                                 Unshifted
                       Out




                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                        14




                                                                                                                                                              1810
                                                                                                                                            13




                                                                                Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                 569 2662    38   14


                                                                                 3951         3283     7234
                                                                                 Out           In      Total
                                                                                             28TH
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                 File Name             : 29TH&BASELINEAM
                                                                                                                 Site Code             : 00000000
                                                                                                                 Start Date            : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                 Page No               :1


                                                                      Groups Printed- Unshifted
                          29TH ST                                 BASELINE                    29TH ST                                  BASELINE
                        Southbound                                Westbound                 Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time     Left     Thru Right                 Peds   Left   Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right            Peds   Left          Thru Right                Peds Int. Total
    07:00 AM      2         1    10                    2     0     111     4      0      0      0     0              0     6            136     0                   0       272
    07:15 AM      2         0     9                    2     0     150     3      0      0      0     0              0    10            188     1                   0       365
    07:30 AM      0         0    19                    0     0     220     6      1      0      0     0              0    10            225     0                   0       481
    07:45 AM      1         0    21                    1     0     258     4      1      0      0     0              0    18            281     3                   0       588
        Total     5         1    59                    5     0     739    17      2      0      0     0              0    44            830     4                   0     1706

    08:00 AM      1           0        15              2     0     232       6           0        0      0   0       0    14            271                 2       0      543
    08:15 AM      3           0        19              2     2     270       4           0        0      0   0       0    17            262                 0       0      579
    08:30 AM      0           0        17              0     0     303       2           0        0      0   0       0    18            267                 1       0      608
    08:45 AM      4           0        21              1     0     275       8           1        0      0   0       0    22            262                 0       0      594
        Total     8           0        72              5     2    1080      20           1        0      0   0       0    71           1062                 3       0     2324

  Grand Total    13          1    131                 10     2    1819      37           3        0      0   0       0   115           1892                  7      0     4030
   Apprch %     8.4        0.6    84.5               6.5   0.1     97.7       2        0.2        0      0   0       0    5.7           93.9               0.3      0
     Total %    0.3          0     3.3               0.2     0     45.1     0.9        0.1        0      0   0       0    2.9           46.9               0.2      0


                                                                                  29TH ST
                                                                           Out       In          Total
                                                                            152       155         307


                                                                            131     1          13   10
                                                                          Right Thru         Left Peds
                         3964


                                   115




                                                                                                                          Right Thru
                         Total




                                  Left




                                                                                                                                          1905
                                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                                             37 1819




                                                                                       North
                                           7 1892
                                  Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                          BASELINE
                       BASELINE

                          2014
                           In




                                                                                                                                            1861
                                                                                                                                             In




                                                                           4/19/2007 07:00 AM
                                                                           4/19/2007 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                          Left Peds
                                                                                                                              2
                         1950




                                                                           Unshifted
                         Out




                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                     0




                                                                                                                                                   3766
                                                                                                                                  3




                                                                          Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                              0    0    0    0


                                                                             10         0           10
                                                                           Out       In          Total
                                                                                  29TH ST
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                 File Name             : 29TH&BASELINEAM
                                                                                                                 Site Code             : 00000000
                                                                                                                 Start Date            : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                 Page No               :1


                                                                      Groups Printed- Unshifted
                          29TH ST                                 BASELINE                    29TH ST                                  BASELINE
                        Southbound                                Westbound                 Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time     Left     Thru Right                 Peds   Left   Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right            Peds   Left          Thru Right                Peds Int. Total
    07:00 AM      2         1    10                    2     0     111     4      0      0      0     0              0     6            136     0                   0       272
    07:15 AM      2         0     9                    2     0     150     3      0      0      0     0              0    10            188     1                   0       365
    07:30 AM      0         0    19                    0     0     220     6      1      0      0     0              0    10            225     0                   0       481
    07:45 AM      1         0    21                    1     0     258     4      1      0      0     0              0    18            281     3                   0       588
        Total     5         1    59                    5     0     739    17      2      0      0     0              0    44            830     4                   0     1706

    08:00 AM      1           0        15              2     0     232       6           0        0      0   0       0    14            271                 2       0      543
    08:15 AM      3           0        19              2     2     270       4           0        0      0   0       0    17            262                 0       0      579
    08:30 AM      0           0        17              0     0     303       2           0        0      0   0       0    18            267                 1       0      608
    08:45 AM      4           0        21              1     0     275       8           1        0      0   0       0    22            262                 0       0      594
        Total     8           0        72              5     2    1080      20           1        0      0   0       0    71           1062                 3       0     2324

  Grand Total    13          1    131                 10     2    1819      37           3        0      0   0       0   115           1892                  7      0     4030
   Apprch %     8.4        0.6    84.5               6.5   0.1     97.7       2        0.2        0      0   0       0    5.7           93.9               0.3      0
     Total %    0.3          0     3.3               0.2     0     45.1     0.9        0.1        0      0   0       0    2.9           46.9               0.2      0


                                                                                  29TH ST
                                                                           Out       In          Total
                                                                            152       155         307


                                                                            131     1          13   10
                                                                          Right Thru         Left Peds
                         3964


                                   115




                                                                                                                          Right Thru
                         Total




                                  Left




                                                                                                                                          1905
                                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                                             37 1819




                                                                                       North
                                           7 1892
                                  Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                          BASELINE
                       BASELINE

                          2014
                           In




                                                                                                                                            1861
                                                                                                                                             In




                                                                           4/19/2007 07:00 AM
                                                                           4/19/2007 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                          Left Peds
                                                                                                                              2
                         1950




                                                                           Unshifted
                         Out




                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                     0




                                                                                                                                                   3766
                                                                                                                                  3




                                                                          Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                              0    0    0    0


                                                                             10         0           10
                                                                           Out       In          Total
                                                                                  29TH ST
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                   File Name             : 29TH&BASELINEPM
                                                                                                                   Site Code             : 00000000
                                                                                                                   Start Date            : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                   Page No               :1


                                                                      Groups Printed- Unshifted
                          29TH ST                                 BASELINE                    29TH ST                                    BASELINE
                        Southbound                                Westbound                 Northbound                                   Eastbound
 Start Time     Left     Thru Right                 Peds   Left   Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right              Peds   Left          Thru Right              Peds Int. Total
    04:00 PM      0         0    17                    0     0     266     4      0      0      0     1                0    34            222     0                 0       544
    04:15 PM      1         0    20                    0     0     330     8      0      0      0     0                0    17            293     0                 1       670
    04:30 PM      5         0    16                    0     0     336    10      2      0      0     0                0    19            288     0                 1       677
    04:45 PM      7         0    26                    0     1     368     8      3      0      0     0                0    13            258     1                 0       685
        Total    13         0    79                    0     1    1300    30      5      0      0     1                0    83           1061     1                 2     2576

    05:00 PM      1           0        31              1     0     352       4           0        0      0     0       0    16            256                0      0      661
    05:15 PM      1           0        20              1     0     308       9           2        0      0     0       0    16            265                0      2      624
    05:30 PM      2           0        14              1     0     394       6           0        0      0     0       0    26            293                0      2      738
    05:45 PM      7           0        21              2     0     392       6           1        0      0     0       0    16            310                0      0      755
        Total    11           0        86              5     0    1446      25           3        0      0     0       0    74           1124                0      4     2778

  Grand Total     24          0    165                 5     1    2746      55           8        0      0     1       0   157           2185                1       6    5354
   Apprch %     12.4          0   85.1               2.6     0     97.7      2         0.3        0      0   100       0    6.7             93               0     0.3
     Total %     0.4          0     3.1              0.1     0     51.3      1         0.1        0      0     0       0    2.9           40.8               0     0.1


                                                                                     29TH ST
                                                                           Out          In       Total
                                                                            212          194      406


                                                                            165     0          24    5
                                                                          Right Thru         Left Peds
                         5260


                                   157




                                                                                                                            Right Thru
                         Total




                                  Left




                                                                                                                                            2210
                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                               55 2746




                                                                                       North
                                           1 2185
                                  Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                            BASELINE
                       BASELINE

                          2349
                           In




                                                                                                                                              2810
                                                                                                                                               In




                                                                           4/19/2007 04:00 PM
                                                                           4/19/2007 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                            Left Peds
                                                                                                                                1
                         2911




                                                                           Unshifted
                         Out




                                                                                                                                                     Total
                                     6




                                                                                                                                                     5020
                                                                                                                                    8




                                                                          Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                              0    0    1    0


                                                                                 2         1         3
                                                                           Out          In       Total
                                                                                     29TH ST
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                   File Name             : 29TH&BASELINEPM
                                                                                                                   Site Code             : 00000000
                                                                                                                   Start Date            : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                   Page No               :1


                                                                      Groups Printed- Unshifted
                          29TH ST                                 BASELINE                    29TH ST                                    BASELINE
                        Southbound                                Westbound                 Northbound                                   Eastbound
 Start Time     Left     Thru Right                 Peds   Left   Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right              Peds   Left          Thru Right              Peds Int. Total
    04:00 PM      0         0    17                    0     0     266     4      0      0      0     1                0    34            222     0                 0       544
    04:15 PM      1         0    20                    0     0     330     8      0      0      0     0                0    17            293     0                 1       670
    04:30 PM      5         0    16                    0     0     336    10      2      0      0     0                0    19            288     0                 1       677
    04:45 PM      7         0    26                    0     1     368     8      3      0      0     0                0    13            258     1                 0       685
        Total    13         0    79                    0     1    1300    30      5      0      0     1                0    83           1061     1                 2     2576

    05:00 PM      1           0        31              1     0     352       4           0        0      0     0       0    16            256                0      0      661
    05:15 PM      1           0        20              1     0     308       9           2        0      0     0       0    16            265                0      2      624
    05:30 PM      2           0        14              1     0     394       6           0        0      0     0       0    26            293                0      2      738
    05:45 PM      7           0        21              2     0     392       6           1        0      0     0       0    16            310                0      0      755
        Total    11           0        86              5     0    1446      25           3        0      0     0       0    74           1124                0      4     2778

  Grand Total     24          0    165                 5     1    2746      55           8        0      0     1       0   157           2185                1       6    5354
   Apprch %     12.4          0   85.1               2.6     0     97.7      2         0.3        0      0   100       0    6.7             93               0     0.3
     Total %     0.4          0     3.1              0.1     0     51.3      1         0.1        0      0     0       0    2.9           40.8               0     0.1


                                                                                     29TH ST
                                                                           Out          In       Total
                                                                            212          194      406


                                                                            165     0          24    5
                                                                          Right Thru         Left Peds
                         5260


                                   157




                                                                                                                            Right Thru
                         Total




                                  Left




                                                                                                                                            2210
                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                               55 2746




                                                                                       North
                                           1 2185
                                  Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                            BASELINE
                       BASELINE

                          2349
                           In




                                                                                                                                              2810
                                                                                                                                               In




                                                                           4/19/2007 04:00 PM
                                                                           4/19/2007 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                            Left Peds
                                                                                                                                1
                         2911




                                                                           Unshifted
                         Out




                                                                                                                                                     Total
                                     6




                                                                                                                                                     5020
                                                                                                                                    8




                                                                          Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                              0    0    1    0


                                                                                 2         1         3
                                                                           Out          In       Total
                                                                                     29TH ST
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                                  File Name        : 30TH&ARAPAHOEAM
                                                                                        Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                        Start Date       : 5/2/2006
                                                                                        Page No          :1


                                                 Groups Printed- Unshifted - BIKES - HV
                   30 TH                      ARAPAHOE                      30 TH                      ARAPAHOE
                     Southbound                   Westbound                   Northbound                   Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right        Peds   Left Thru Right Peds       Left Thru Right       Peds    Left Thru Right     Peds Int. Total
   07:00 AM     14      14   18          0    14    118      8     0       9     56      2       0     23    81     6        0      363
   07:15 AM     11      35   18          0    13    143      9     1       8     66      2       6     45    92     5        0      454
   07:30 AM     14      53   11          0    20    172    12      3     19     100      4       0     49   152     5        0      614
   07:45 AM     14      80   16          0    23    168    22      0     15     105     10       0     30   108     7        0      598
       Total    53     182   63          0    70    601    51      4     51     327     18       6    147   433    23        0    2029

   08:00 AM     17     69        18      0     9     190     22     0     13    138     13       0     42     77    12       0      620
   08:15 AM     27     87        15      0    15     161     20     0     25    128      9       0     49    116     8       0      660
   08:30 AM     24     71        14      0    17     139     18     0     24    112     13       0     53    105     4       4      598
   08:45 AM     35     48        21      0    14     188     15     0     17    100      9       0     41     84     1       0      573
       Total   103    275        68      0    55     678     75     0     79    478     44       0    185    382    25       4     2451

 Grand Total   156    457    131         0   125    1279    126      4   130    805     62        6   332    815     48       4    4480
   Apprch %     21    61.4   17.6        0    8.1    83.4    8.2   0.3    13    80.3   6.2      0.6   27.7    68      4     0.3
    Total %     3.5   10.2    2.9        0    2.8    28.5    2.8   0.1    2.9     18    1.4     0.1    7.4   18.2   1.1     0.1
   Unshifted   155    455    128         0   124    1273    123      4   130    803     62        6   329    811     48       4    4455
 % Unshifted   99.4   99.6   97.7        0   99.2    99.5   97.6   100   100    99.8   100     100    99.1   99.5   100    100      99.4
     BIKES        0      1      0        0      0       1      0     0      0      1      0       0      0      0     0       0        3
   % BIKES        0    0.2      0        0      0     0.1      0     0      0    0.1      0       0      0      0     0       0      0.1
         HV       1      1      3        0      1       5      3     0      0      1      0       0      3      4     0       0      22
      % HV      0.6    0.2    2.3        0    0.8     0.4    2.4     0      0    0.1      0       0    0.9    0.5     0       0      0.5
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                                  File Name        : 30TH&ARAPAHOEAM
                                                                                        Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                        Start Date       : 5/2/2006
                                                                                        Page No          :1


                                                 Groups Printed- Unshifted - BIKES - HV
                   30 TH                      ARAPAHOE                      30 TH                      ARAPAHOE
                     Southbound                   Westbound                   Northbound                   Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right        Peds   Left Thru Right Peds       Left Thru Right       Peds    Left Thru Right     Peds Int. Total
   07:00 AM     14      14   18          0    14    118      8     0       9     56      2       0     23    81     6        0      363
   07:15 AM     11      35   18          0    13    143      9     1       8     66      2       6     45    92     5        0      454
   07:30 AM     14      53   11          0    20    172    12      3     19     100      4       0     49   152     5        0      614
   07:45 AM     14      80   16          0    23    168    22      0     15     105     10       0     30   108     7        0      598
       Total    53     182   63          0    70    601    51      4     51     327     18       6    147   433    23        0    2029

   08:00 AM     17     69        18      0     9     190     22     0     13    138     13       0     42     77    12       0      620
   08:15 AM     27     87        15      0    15     161     20     0     25    128      9       0     49    116     8       0      660
   08:30 AM     24     71        14      0    17     139     18     0     24    112     13       0     53    105     4       4      598
   08:45 AM     35     48        21      0    14     188     15     0     17    100      9       0     41     84     1       0      573
       Total   103    275        68      0    55     678     75     0     79    478     44       0    185    382    25       4     2451

 Grand Total   156    457    131         0   125    1279    126      4   130    805     62        6   332    815     48       4    4480
   Apprch %     21    61.4   17.6        0    8.1    83.4    8.2   0.3    13    80.3   6.2      0.6   27.7    68      4     0.3
    Total %     3.5   10.2    2.9        0    2.8    28.5    2.8   0.1    2.9     18    1.4     0.1    7.4   18.2   1.1     0.1
   Unshifted   155    455    128         0   124    1273    123      4   130    803     62        6   329    811     48       4    4455
 % Unshifted   99.4   99.6   97.7        0   99.2    99.5   97.6   100   100    99.8   100     100    99.1   99.5   100    100      99.4
     BIKES        0      1      0        0      0       1      0     0      0      1      0       0      0      0     0       0        3
   % BIKES        0    0.2      0        0      0     0.1      0     0      0    0.1      0       0      0      0     0       0      0.1
         HV       1      1      3        0      1       5      3     0      0      1      0       0      3      4     0       0      22
      % HV      0.6    0.2    2.3        0    0.8     0.4    2.4     0      0    0.1      0       0    0.9    0.5     0       0      0.5
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                                    File Name       : 30TH&ARAPAHOEPM
                                                                                          Site Code       : 00000000
                                                                                          Start Date      : 5/2/2006
                                                                                          Page No         :1


                                                Groups Printed- Unshifted - BIKES - HV
                   30 TH                     ARAPAHOE                      30 TH                        ARAPAHOE
                     Southbound                  Westbound                   Northbound                     Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right       Peds   Left Thru Right Peds       Left Thru Right         Peds    Left Thru Right       Peds Int. Total
   04:00 PM     43      88   35         0    45    238    28      3     31     104     12         0     70   150    13          0      860
   04:15 PM     30      78   49         0    54    231    34      8     38     118     10         0     72   202    14          1      939
   04:30 PM     31      90   41         0    43    213    36      4     37     122     13         0     67   167    19          2      885
   04:45 PM     39      74   57         0    60    232    43      4     33     125      9         0     90   202    25          0      993
       Total   143     330  182         0   202    914   141     19    139     469     44         0    299   721    71          3    3677

   05:00 PM     35    138     79        2    83     198     29      10     42     171    12       3     76     175     20       7     1080
   05:15 PM     42    129     56        0    62     274     36       5     53     165    14       1     83     211     27       4     1162
   05:30 PM     32    144     50        0    80     187     30       6     60     151    13       0     82     176      4       2     1017
   05:45 PM     29     89     48        0    58     193     39       3     36     193     5       4     68     161     19       2      947
       Total   138    500    233        2   283     852    134      24    191     680    44       8    309     723     70      15     4206

 Grand Total   281    830     415       2   485    1766     275     43    330    1149     88       8   608    1444    141      18     7883
   Apprch %    18.4   54.3   27.2     0.1   18.9    68.7   10.7    1.7     21      73    5.6    0.5    27.5    65.3   6.4      0.8
    Total %     3.6   10.5     5.3      0    6.2    22.4     3.5    0.5    4.2    14.6   1.1     0.1    7.7    18.3    1.8     0.2
   Unshifted   280    829     415       2   485    1759     275     43    330    1143     88       8   608    1438    141       18    7862
 % Unshifted   99.6   99.9    100     100   100     99.6    100    100    100     99.5   100    100    100     99.6   100     100      99.7
     BIKES        0      1       0      0      0       5       0      0      0       5     0       0      0       5      0       0      16
   % BIKES        0    0.1       0      0      0     0.3       0      0      0     0.4     0       0      0     0.3      0       0      0.2
         HV       1      0       0      0      0       2       0      0      0       1     0       0      0       1      0       0        5
      % HV      0.4      0       0      0      0     0.1       0      0      0     0.1     0       0      0     0.1      0       0      0.1
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                   File Name         : ARAPAHOE&FOLSOMAM
                                                                                                                   Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                                                   Start Date        : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                   Page No           :1


                                                                             Groups Printed- Unshifted
                          FOLSOM                                        ARAPAHOE                     FOLSOM                                         ARAPAHOE
                         Southbound                                     Westbound                  Northbound                                       Eastbound
 Start Time     Left      Thru Right                     Peds   Left     Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right                 Peds    Left           Thru Right              Peds Int. Total
    07:00 AM     22         33     5                        1    17        96    28      0      6     18    7                    0     11              62     6                 0       312
    07:15 AM     39         66    12                        0    18       103    28      0     11     20    5                    0     17              77    17                 0       413
    07:30 AM     40         60     6                        0    18       140    35      1     17     34    8                    0     10              76    16                 0       461
    07:45 AM     79        107    13                        0    22       155    36      0     31     30    5                    0     17             124    30                 0       649
        Total   180        266    36                        1    75       494   127      1     65    102   25                    0     55             339    69                 0     1835

    08:00 AM     53           89            16              0    34      139      30           0       15       41       6       0      8            116                38      0      585
    08:15 AM     40           79            17              0    24      136      38           0       19       34      13       0     15            139                11      0      565
    08:30 AM     48           86            18              0    20      148      46           0       23       31      11       0     20            137                16      0      604
    08:45 AM     67           92            10              0    35      131      19           0       32       37       6       0     10            124                19      0      582
        Total   208          346            61              0   113      554     133           0       89      143      36       0     53            516                84      0     2336

  Grand Total    388         612          97                1    188    1048    260            1      154       245      61      0    108           855            153          0     4171
   Apprch %     35.3        55.7          8.8             0.1   12.6       70   17.4         0.1     33.5      53.3    13.3      0     9.7          76.6           13.7         0
     Total %      9.3       14.7          2.3               0     4.5    25.1    6.2           0       3.7       5.9    1.5      0     2.6          20.5            3.7         0


                                                                                        FOLSOM
                                                                                 Out       In          Total
                                                                                  613     1098         1711


                                                                                   97  612          388    1
                                                                                Right Thru         Left Peds
                            2415


                                        108




                                                                                                                                       Right Thru
                            Total




                                       Left




                                                                                                                                         260 1048


                                                                                                                                                       1304
                                                                                                                                                       Out




                                                                                             North
                                                   855
                            ARAPAHOE




                                                                                                                                                       ARAPAHOE
                                       Peds Right Thru
                                1116
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                          1497
                                                                                                                                                           In




                                                                                 4/19/2007 07:00 AM
                                              153




                                                                                 4/19/2007 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                       Left Peds
                                                                                                                                        188
                        1299




                                                                                 Unshifted
                        Out




                                                                                                                                                                Total
                                          0




                                                                                                                                                                2801
                                                                                                                                               1




                                                                                Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                 154  245    61    0


                                                                                  953       460        1413
                                                                                 Out       In          Total
                                                                                        FOLSOM
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                   File Name         : ARAPAHOE&FOLSOMAM
                                                                                                                   Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                                                   Start Date        : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                   Page No           :1


                                                                             Groups Printed- Unshifted
                          FOLSOM                                        ARAPAHOE                     FOLSOM                                         ARAPAHOE
                         Southbound                                     Westbound                  Northbound                                       Eastbound
 Start Time     Left      Thru Right                     Peds   Left     Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right                 Peds    Left           Thru Right              Peds Int. Total
    07:00 AM     22         33     5                        1    17        96    28      0      6     18    7                    0     11              62     6                 0       312
    07:15 AM     39         66    12                        0    18       103    28      0     11     20    5                    0     17              77    17                 0       413
    07:30 AM     40         60     6                        0    18       140    35      1     17     34    8                    0     10              76    16                 0       461
    07:45 AM     79        107    13                        0    22       155    36      0     31     30    5                    0     17             124    30                 0       649
        Total   180        266    36                        1    75       494   127      1     65    102   25                    0     55             339    69                 0     1835

    08:00 AM     53           89            16              0    34      139      30           0       15       41       6       0      8            116                38      0      585
    08:15 AM     40           79            17              0    24      136      38           0       19       34      13       0     15            139                11      0      565
    08:30 AM     48           86            18              0    20      148      46           0       23       31      11       0     20            137                16      0      604
    08:45 AM     67           92            10              0    35      131      19           0       32       37       6       0     10            124                19      0      582
        Total   208          346            61              0   113      554     133           0       89      143      36       0     53            516                84      0     2336

  Grand Total    388         612          97                1    188    1048    260            1      154       245      61      0    108           855            153          0     4171
   Apprch %     35.3        55.7          8.8             0.1   12.6       70   17.4         0.1     33.5      53.3    13.3      0     9.7          76.6           13.7         0
     Total %      9.3       14.7          2.3               0     4.5    25.1    6.2           0       3.7       5.9    1.5      0     2.6          20.5            3.7         0


                                                                                        FOLSOM
                                                                                 Out       In          Total
                                                                                  613     1098         1711


                                                                                   97  612          388    1
                                                                                Right Thru         Left Peds
                            2415


                                        108




                                                                                                                                       Right Thru
                            Total




                                       Left




                                                                                                                                         260 1048


                                                                                                                                                       1304
                                                                                                                                                       Out




                                                                                             North
                                                   855
                            ARAPAHOE




                                                                                                                                                       ARAPAHOE
                                       Peds Right Thru
                                1116
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                          1497
                                                                                                                                                           In




                                                                                 4/19/2007 07:00 AM
                                              153




                                                                                 4/19/2007 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                       Left Peds
                                                                                                                                        188
                        1299




                                                                                 Unshifted
                        Out




                                                                                                                                                                Total
                                          0




                                                                                                                                                                2801
                                                                                                                                               1




                                                                                Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                 154  245    61    0


                                                                                  953       460        1413
                                                                                 Out       In          Total
                                                                                        FOLSOM
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                 File Name         : ARAPAHOE&FOLSOMPM
                                                                                                                 Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                                                 Start Date        : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                 Page No           :1


                                                                            Groups Printed- Unshifted
                          FOLSOM                                       ARAPAHOE                     FOLSOM                                        ARAPAHOE
                         Southbound                                    Westbound                  Northbound                                      Eastbound
 Start Time     Left      Thru Right                     Peds   Left    Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right                Peds    Left           Thru Right            Peds Int. Total
    04:00 PM     52         88     9                        0    18      151    37      0     24     80   19                   0     40             198    17               0       733
    04:15 PM     59         99    18                        0    14      165    24      0     20     78   18                   0     23             189    13               0       720
    04:30 PM     54        143    10                        0    19      165    20      0     27     84   12                   0     20             186    18               0       758
    04:45 PM     61        109     8                        1    28      177    40      1     30     60   11                   0     33             213    24               0       796
        Total   226        439    45                        1    79      658   121      1    101    302   60                   0    116             786    72               0     3007

    05:00 PM     78          168            10              0    29     174      29           0       28       96     12       0     29            196             27       0      876
    05:15 PM     64          137            13              0    21     163      20           0       32       60     15       0     33            206             18       0      782
    05:30 PM     63          119            16              0    19     156      28           0       16       75     11       0     28            171             19       0      721
    05:45 PM     55          105            24              0    12     153      29           0       36       71     14       0     22            191             41       0      753
        Total   260          529            63              0    81     646     106           0      112      302     52       0    112            764            105       0     3132

  Grand Total    486         968       108                  1   160    1304    227            1      213      604    112       0    228           1550            177       0     6139
   Apprch %     31.1        61.9        6.9               0.1    9.5    77.1   13.4         0.1     22.9       65    12.1      0   11.7            79.3            9.1      0
     Total %      7.9       15.8        1.8                 0    2.6    21.2    3.7           0       3.5      9.8    1.8      0     3.7           25.2            2.9      0


                                                                                       FOLSOM
                                                                                Out       In          Total
                                                                                1059     1563         2622


                                                                                 108  968          486    1
                                                                               Right Thru         Left Peds
                            3580


                                        228




                                                                                                                                     Right Thru
                            Total




                                       Left




                                                                                                                                       227 1304


                                                                                                                                                     2148
                                                                                                                                                     Out




                                                                                            North
                                              177 1550
                            ARAPAHOE




                                                                                                                                                     ARAPAHOE
                                       Peds Right Thru
                                1955
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                        1692
                                                                                                                                                         In




                                                                                4/19/2007 04:00 PM
                                                                                4/19/2007 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                     Left Peds
                                                                                                                                      160
                        1625




                                                                                Unshifted
                        Out




                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                          0




                                                                                                                                                              3840
                                                                                                                                             1




                                                                               Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                213  604   112    0


                                                                                1305       929        2234
                                                                                Out       In          Total
                                                                                       FOLSOM
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                         File Name        : BROADWAY&BASELINEAM
                                                                               Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                               Start Date       : 5/2/2006
                                                                               Page No          :1


                                                Groups Printed- Unshifted - BIKES - HV
                      BROADWAY                    BASELINE                   BROADWAY                       BASELINE
                      Southbound                 Westbound                   Northbound                     Eastbound
 Start Time    Left    Thru Right    Peds   Left Thru Right Peds       Left Thru Right       Peds    Left   Thru Right    Peds Int. Total
   07:00 AM     54       63    0        2     1     20    59      0     14      92      6       2      3      53    14       0      383
   07:15 AM     74       91    0        2     3     54    80      0     26     115      3       0      4      85    22       0      559
   07:30 AM    103       82    0        7     4     69   121      0     28     158     14       6      1     100    16       0      709
   07:45 AM     95       82    1        8     7    116   205      0     23     236     14      11      3     111    34       0      946
       Total   326      318    1       19    15    259   465      0     91     601     37      19     11     349    86       0    2597

   08:00 AM     96     114       0     15     5    111     143     0    41     218     14       3      4     91     24       2      881
   08:15 AM    108     108       0      5     6     98     161     0    35     207     16      19      4     93     24       3      887
   08:30 AM    118      89       0      5     6    130     135     0    48     205     25      29      1     84     17       0      892
   08:45 AM    101      84       0     11     7    164     166     0    34     232     12      20      3     88     31       2      955
       Total   423     395       0     36    24    503     605     0   158     862     67      71     12    356     96       7     3615

 Grand Total   749     713      1      55    39    762    1070     0   249    1463    104      90     23    705    182        7    6212
   Apprch %    49.3     47    0.1     3.6    2.1   40.7    57.2    0   13.1    76.8   5.5     4.7     2.5   76.9   19.8    0.8
    Total %    12.1    11.5     0     0.9    0.6   12.3    17.2    0      4    23.6    1.7     1.4    0.4   11.3    2.9     0.1
   Unshifted   748     709      1      55    39    762    1068     0   249    1428    103      90     23    703     182       7    6167
 % Unshifted   99.9    99.4   100     100   100    100     99.8    0   100     97.6     99    100    100    99.7    100    100      99.3
     BIKES        1       4     0       0      0      0       1    0      0      35      0       0      0      2      0       0      43
   % BIKES      0.1     0.6     0       0      0      0     0.1    0      0     2.4      0       0      0    0.3      0       0      0.7
         HV       0       0     0       0      0      0       1    0      0       0      1       0      0      0      0       0        2
      % HV        0       0     0       0      0      0     0.1    0      0       0      1       0      0      0      0       0        0
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                          File Name         : BROADWAY&BASELINEPM
                                                                                Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                Start Date        : 5/2/2006
                                                                                Page No           :1


                                                 Groups Printed- Unshifted - BIKES - HV
                       BROADWAY                    BASELINE                   BROADWAY                        BASELINE
                       Southbound                 Westbound                   Northbound                      Eastbound
 Start Time     Left    Thru Right   Peds    Left Thru Right Peds       Left Thru Right        Peds    Left   Thru Right     Peds Int. Total
   04:00 PM     176      100    0       1     16    132   126      0     26     186     31        6      8      97    49        0      954
   04:15 PM     182      119    0       3     16     75   132      3     21     153     20        1      9     106    38        2      880
   04:30 PM     182      140    0       6      8     77   124      0     28     176     27        2      3     101    42        0      916
   04:45 PM     237      124    0      14     12    100   104      0     20     168     25        3      4     104    37        0      952
       Total    777      483    0      24     52    384   486      3     95     683   103        12     24     408   166        2    3702

   05:00 PM     225     146      0     24      9    100    142      2    28     158     26       14      4    133     47        1     1059
   05:15 PM     229     163      0      2     13     98     84      0    18     171     29        5      7    133     65        0     1017
   05:30 PM     194     145      0      5     17    137    112      0    47     183     34        1      5    112     40        1     1033
   05:45 PM     177     111      0      6     15    143    125      0    31     171     26        2     10    113     38        1      969
       Total    825     565      0     37     54    478    463      2   124     683    115       22     26    491    190        3     4078

 Grand Total   1602    1048      0     61    106    862    949      5   219    1366     218      34     50    899    356         5    7780
   Apprch %     59.1    38.7     0     2.3    5.5   44.8   49.4   0.3   11.9    74.4   11.9     1.9     3.8   68.6   27.2     0.4
    Total %     20.6    13.5     0     0.8    1.4   11.1   12.2   0.1    2.8    17.6     2.8     0.4    0.6   11.6    4.6      0.1
   Unshifted   1597    1032      0     61    101    862     949     5   219    1352     213       34    50    895     355        5    7730
 % Unshifted    99.7    98.5     0    100    95.3    100    100   100   100       99   97.7     100    100    99.6   99.7     100      99.4
     BIKES         1     12      0       0      0      0      0     0      0      11       0       0      0      4       0       0      28
   % BIKES       0.1     1.1     0       0      0      0      0     0      0     0.8       0       0      0    0.4       0       0      0.4
         HV        4       4     0       0      5      0      0     0      0       3       5       0      0      0       1       0      22
      % HV       0.2     0.4     0       0    4.7      0      0     0      0     0.2     2.3       0      0      0     0.3       0      0.3
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                              File Name        : BROADWAY&SPRUCEAM
                                                                                    Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                    Start Date       : 5/2/2006
                                                                                    Page No          :1


                                                 Groups Printed- Unshifted - BIKES - HV
                      BROADWAY                      SPRUCE                    BROADWAY                        SPRUCE
                      Southbound                  Westbound                   Northbound                     Eastbound
 Start Time    Left    Thru Right     Peds   Left Thru Right Peds       Left Thru Right      Peds     Left   Thru Right   Peds Int. Total
   07:00 AM      0      161   10         3     7     10      4     0     10      86     0       1       0       0     0      0      292
   07:15 AM      0      244   20         8     4     13      6     0     11     107     0       2       0       0     0      0      415
   07:30 AM      0      163   29         2    12     19    17      1     18     135     0       5       0       0     0      0      401
   07:45 AM      0      183   26         5    13     34      9     3     16     145     0       2       0       0     0      0      436
       Total     0      751   85        18    36     76    36      4     55     473     0      10       0       0     0      0    1544

   08:00 AM      0     175     41        3    21     39      19      0     20     125    0      2       0      0     0       0      445
   08:15 AM      0     186     35        1     9     35      15      0     21     171    0      1       0      0     0       0      474
   08:30 AM      0     204     28        3    17     49      16      0     24     151    0      5       0      0     0       0      497
   08:45 AM      0     168     32       11    18     36      24      0     22     130    0      2       0      0     0       0      443
       Total     0     733    136       18    65    159      74      0     87     577    0     10       0      0     0       0     1859

 Grand Total     0    1484    221      36    101    235     110       4   142    1050    0     20       0      0     0       0     3403
   Apprch %      0     85.2   12.7     2.1   22.4   52.2   24.4    0.9    11.7    86.6   0    1.7       0      0     0       0
    Total %      0     43.6    6.5     1.1      3    6.9     3.2    0.1    4.2    30.9   0     0.6      0      0     0       0
   Unshifted     0    1468     219     35    100    215     110       4   141    1041    0     20       0      0     0       0     3353
 % Unshifted     0     98.9   99.1    97.2    99    91.5    100    100    99.3    99.1   0    100       0      0     0       0      98.5
     BIKES       0       11       2      1      1     20       0      0      1       5   0       0      0      0     0       0       41
   % BIKES       0      0.7     0.9    2.8      1    8.5       0      0    0.7     0.5   0       0      0      0     0       0       1.2
         HV      0        5       0      0      0      0       0      0      0       4   0       0      0      0     0       0         9
      % HV       0      0.3       0      0      0      0       0      0      0     0.4   0       0      0      0     0       0       0.3
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                              File Name          : BROADWAY&SPRUCEPM
                                                                                    Site Code          : 00000000
                                                                                    Start Date         : 5/2/2006
                                                                                    Page No            :1


                                                  Groups Printed- Unshifted - BIKES - HV
                      BROADWAY                       SPRUCE                    BROADWAY                         SPRUCE
                      Southbound                   Westbound                   Northbound                      Eastbound
 Start Time    Left    Thru Right     Peds    Left Thru Right Peds       Left Thru Right       Peds     Left   Thru Right   Peds Int. Total
   04:00 PM      0      166   22        24     23     41    32      4     18     191     0       10       0       0     0      4      535
   04:15 PM      0      177   16        13     31     51    26      2     15     180     0       12       0       0     0      1      524
   04:30 PM      0      164   26        14     22     54    29      7     23     168     0       20       0       0     0      0      527
   04:45 PM      0      193   30         9     16     60    22      8     26     152     1       24       0       0     0      4      545
       Total     0      700   94        60     92    206   109     21     82     691     1       66       0       0     0      9    2131

   05:00 PM      0     209     21       14     28     60     38      4     23     182      0     30       0      0     0       5      614
   05:15 PM      0     190     26       32     32     76     29      2     23     183      0     13       0      0     0       7      613
   05:30 PM      0     171     35       19     32     72     28      5     24     151      0     13       0      0     0       6      556
   05:45 PM      0     143     27       19     19     69     20      3     34     152      0     22       0      0     0       0      508
       Total     0     713    109       84    111    277    115     14    104     668      0     78       0      0     0      18     2291

 Grand Total     0    1413    203      144    203    483     224     35   186    1359      1    144       0      0     0      27     4422
   Apprch %      0     80.3   11.5     8.2    21.5   51.1   23.7    3.7    11     80.4   0.1     8.5      0      0     0     100
    Total %      0       32     4.6     3.3    4.6   10.9     5.1   0.8    4.2    30.7     0     3.3      0      0     0      0.6
   Unshifted     0    1408     203     144    199    463     223     35   186    1349      1    144       0      0     0      27     4382
 % Unshifted     0     99.6    100     100     98    95.9   99.6    100   100     99.3   100    100       0      0     0     100      99.1
     BIKES       0        3       0       0      4     20       1     0      0       7     0       0      0      0     0        0      35
   % BIKES       0      0.2       0       0      2    4.1     0.4     0      0     0.5     0       0      0      0     0        0      0.8
         HV      0        2       0       0      0      0       0     0      0       3     0       0      0      0     0        0        5
      % HV       0      0.1       0       0      0      0       0     0      0     0.2     0       0      0      0     0        0      0.1
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                        File Name            : FOLSOM&PEARLAM
                                                                                                                        Site Code            : 00000000
                                                                                                                        Start Date           : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                        Page No              :1


                                                                         Groups Printed- Unshifted
                 FOLSOM ST                                        PEARL ST                 FOLSOM ST                                 PEARL ST
                     Southbound                                      Westbound                 Northbound                               Eastbound
 Start Time     Left Thru Right                          Peds   Left Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right                   Peds   Left Thru Right                    Peds Int. Total
    07:00 AM     22   126     8                             2    22    84    26      2      0     61   15                      2     3    39     9                       2       423
    07:15 AM     28   176     5                             6    29    88    23      2      8     70   20                      1     1    54     8                       2       521
    07:30 AM     35   122     8                             2    27    95    31      1      4     89   20                      2     4    66     4                       1       511
    07:45 AM     54   205    12                             5    34   112    35      2     13     75   22                      1     6    73    14                       2       665
        Total   139   629    33                            15   112   379   115      7     25    295   77                      6    14   232    35                       7     2120

    08:00 AM     36          184            11              3    21     114      45           2       12       91     23       2    8             89             15      2      658
    08:15 AM     45          168            14              5    36     124      36           3       11       85     22       2   12             88             18      3      672
    08:30 AM     41          145             9              5    35     128      38           5       15       78     19       3   11            100             21      3      656
    08:45 AM     60          164            11              2    29     109      42           2        8       94     24       2    9             74             14      2      646
        Total   182          661            45             15   121     475     161          12       46      348     88       9   40            351             68     10     2632

  Grand Total    321       1290           78               30    233     854    276         19        71      643    165     15     54           583        103         17     4752
   Apprch %     18.7          75          4.5             1.7   16.9    61.8     20         1.4      7.9      71.9   18.5    1.7   7.1             77       13.6        2.2
     Total %      6.8       27.1          1.6             0.6     4.9     18     5.8        0.4      1.5      13.5    3.5    0.3   1.1           12.3        2.2        0.4


                                                                                FOLSOM ST
                                                                                Out    In             Total
                                                                                 973  1719            2692


                                                                                  78 1290          321   30
                                                                               Right Thru         Left Peds
                            1760


                                         54




                                                                                                                                    Right Thru
                            Total




                                       Left




                                                                                                                                      276


                                                                                                                                                   1069
                                                                                                                                                   Out
                                                                                                                                                    PEARL ST




                                                                                            North
                                                   583
                                       Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                           854
                                 757
                                In




                                                                                                                                                          1382
                                                                                                                                                           In




                                                                                4/19/2007 07:00 AM
                        PEARL ST




                                              103




                                                                                4/19/2007 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                    Left Peds
                                                                                                                                     233
                        1003




                                                                                Unshifted
                        Out




                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                         17




                                                                                                                                                   2451
                                                                                                                                           19




                                                                               Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                 71  643   165   15


                                                                                1626     894          2520
                                                                                Out     In            Total
                                                                                 FOLSOM ST
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                        File Name             : FOLSOM&PEARLPM
                                                                                                                        Site Code             : 00000000
                                                                                                                        Start Date            : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                        Page No               :1


                                                                        Groups Printed- Unshifted
                  FOLSOM                                          PEARL                    FOLSOM                                     PEARL
                     Southbound                                     Westbound                 Northbound                                Eastbound
 Start Time     Left Thru Right                         Peds   Left Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right                    Peds   Left Thru Right                       Peds Int. Total
    04:00 PM     54   106     8                            0    24    98    32      1     20    143   23                       0    16   111    15                          0       651
    04:15 PM     44    87    10                            0    19    97    35      1     13    149   25                       2    14   126    15                          4       641
    04:30 PM     53   121     6                            2    25    85    40      2     32    143   30                       3    19   127    14                          1       703
    04:45 PM     56   117     8                            1    30   115    36      1     22    172   27                       0    22   126    19                          1       753
        Total   207   431    32                            3    98   395   143      5     87    607  105                       5    71   490    63                          6     2748

    05:00 PM     53          130            5              0    28     109      74           2       32       191     26       0     32            179              24      3      888
    05:15 PM     55          136            6              0    26     118      52           2       31       174     36       2     36            136              23      5      838
    05:30 PM     54          104           10              1    36     144      46           1       23       151     21       0     15            160              28      0      794
    05:45 PM     68          162           11              0    46     103      53           1       32       154     26       1     14            116              18      0      805
        Total   230          532           32              1   136     474     225           6      118       670    109       3     97            591              93      8     3325

  Grand Total    437         963         64                4    234     869   368          11       205      1277    214       8    168           1081          156        14     6073
   Apprch %     29.8        65.6         4.4             0.3   15.8    58.6   24.8         0.7        12      74.9   12.6    0.5   11.8            76.2          11          1
     Total %      7.2       15.9         1.1             0.1     3.9   14.3    6.1         0.2       3.4        21    3.5    0.1     2.8           17.8          2.6       0.2


                                                                                FOLSOM
                                                                               Out    In             Total
                                                                               1813  1468            3281


                                                                                 64  963          437    4
                                                                              Right Thru         Left Peds
                           2557


                                       168




                                                                                                                                     Right Thru
                           Total




                                      Left




                                                                                                                                       368


                                                                                                                                                     1732
                                                                                                                                                     Out
                                                                                                                                                       PEARL




                                                                                           North
                                             156 1081
                                      Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                            869
                               1419
                                In




                                                                                                                                                             1482
                                                                                                                                                              In




                                                                               4/19/2007 04:00 PM
                                                                               4/19/2007 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                     Left Peds
                         PEARL




                                                                                                                                      234
                        1138




                                                                               Unshifted
                        Out




                                                                                                                                                     Total
                                        14




                                                                                                                                                     3214
                                                                                                                                            11




                                                                              Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                               205 1277   214    8


                                                                               1353  1704            3057
                                                                               Out    In             Total
                                                                                FOLSOM
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                           File Name     : REAGENT&COLORADOAM
                                                                                                           Site Code     : 00000000
                                                                                                           Start Date    : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                           Page No       :1


                                                                         Groups Printed- Unshifted
                       REAGENT ST                                   COLORADO                  REAGENT ST                                    COLORADO
                       Southbound                                   Westbound                  Northbound                                   Eastbound
 Start Time     Left    Thru Right Peds                      Left    Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right Peds                Left           Thru Right           Peds Int. Total
    07:00 AM      0        0     1    0                       38       39     0      2      9      0   11    0                  0              34    13              3       150
    07:15 AM      0        0     1    0                       53       60     1      2     11      0   11    0                  0              38    12              8       197
    07:30 AM      0        0     0    0                       88       66     0      2     13      0   15    0                  1              50    13              6       254
    07:45 AM      2        1     0    0                      132       87     3     11     18      0    5    0                  4              46    24             17       350
        Total     2        1     2    0                      311      252     4     17     51      0   42    0                  5             168    62             34       951

    08:00 AM      0              0              1        1   107      82        0          7       36       0     12     1       3            53             36     11      350
    08:15 AM      0              0              1        0    92      81        1          1       34       0     26     0       0            63             21      8      328
    08:30 AM      1              0              1        0   107     103        1          7       15       0     14     0       0            53             26     14      342
    08:45 AM      0              0              0        0   118      93        2          6       22       0     19     0       0            39             40      9      348
        Total     1              0              3        1   424     359        4         21      107       0     71     1       3           208            123     42     1368

  Grand Total     3             1          5             1    735     611       8        38       158       0    113      1     8             376           185     76     2319
   Apprch %      30            10        50             10   52.8    43.9     0.6        2.7     58.1       0   41.5    0.4   1.2            58.3          28.7   11.8
     Total %    0.1             0        0.2             0   31.7    26.3     0.3        1.6       6.8      0     4.9     0   0.3            16.2             8    3.3


                                                                                 REAGENT ST
                                                                             Out     In     Total
                                                                               16      10      26


                                                                                5     1            3   1
                                                                            Right Thru         Left Peds
                           1419


                                          8




                                                                                                                               Right Thru
                           Total




                                      Left




                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                                492
                                                                                                                                   8




                                                                                         North
                                                  376




                                                                                                                                               COLORADO
                           COLORADO




                                      Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                      611
                                645
                               In




                                                                                                                                                  1392
                                                                                                                                                   In




                                                                             4/19/2007 07:00 AM
                                             185




                                                                             4/19/2007 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                               Left Peds
                                                                                                                                735
                        774




                                                                             Unshifted
                       Out




                                                                                                                                                        Total
                                        76




                                                                                                                                                        1884
                                                                                                                                      38




                                                                            Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                             158     0  113    1


                                                                              921     272   1193
                                                                             Out     In     Total
                                                                                 REAGENT ST
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                            File Name     : REAGENT&COLORADOPM
                                                                                                            Site Code     : 00000000
                                                                                                            Start Date    : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                            Page No       :1


                                                                          Groups Printed- Unshifted
                       REAGENT ST                                    COLORADO                  REAGENT ST                                    COLORADO
                       Southbound                                    Westbound                  Northbound                                   Eastbound
 Start Time     Left    Thru Right Peds                       Left    Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right Peds                Left           Thru Right           Peds Int. Total
    04:00 PM      0        0     0    1                        49       80     0     15     30      0   88    1                  0             116    28             36       444
    04:15 PM      0        0     1    0                        50       50     0     20     44      0   86    0                  0             108    34             33       426
    04:30 PM      1        0     0    0                        36       82     1     12     38      0   68    0                  0              90    30             18       376
    04:45 PM      1        0     0    0                        59       89     1      6     28      0   88    0                  0             110    31             13       426
        Total     2        0     1    1                       194      301     2     53    140      0  330    1                  0             424  123             100     1672

    05:00 PM      0              0              0        0     83      97        1          7       66       0    108     0       0           169             29     24      584
    05:15 PM      0              0              0        0     50      74        1         11       58       2    105     0       1           165             28     22      517
    05:30 PM      0              0              1        0     74      76        0          6       44       0    102     0       0           140             20      9      472
    05:45 PM      1              0              1        1     78     128        1         12       49       0     60     0       1           121             33     14      500
        Total     1              0              2        1    285     375        3         36      217       2    375     0       2           595            110     69     2073

  Grand Total      3             0       3                2    479     676       5        89       357        2   705      1     2           1019           233    169      3745
   Apprch %     37.5             0    37.5               25   38.4    54.1     0.4        7.1     33.5      0.2   66.2   0.1   0.1            71.6          16.4   11.9
     Total %     0.1             0     0.1              0.1   12.8    18.1     0.1        2.4       9.5     0.1   18.8     0   0.1            27.2           6.2    4.5


                                                                                     REAGENT ST
                                                                              Out        In     Total
                                                                                    9       8      17


                                                                                 3     0            3   2
                                                                             Right Thru         Left Peds
                           2459


                                          2




                                                                                                                                Right Thru
                           Total




                                      Left




                                                                                                                                                1727
                                                                                                                                                Out
                                                                                                                                    5




                                                                                          North
                                             233 1019




                                                                                                                                                COLORADO
                           COLORADO




                                      Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                       676
                               1423
                                In




                                                                                                                                                   1249
                                                                                                                                                    In




                                                                              4/19/2007 04:00 PM
                                                                              4/19/2007 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                Left Peds
                                                                                                                                 479
                       1036




                                                                              Unshifted
                       Out




                                                                                                                                                         Total
                                       169




                                                                                                                                                         2976
                                                                                                                                       89




                                                                             Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                              357     2  705    1


                                                                               712   1065    1777
                                                                              Out     In     Total
                                                                                  REAGENT ST
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                             File Name           : REGENT&BROADWAYAM
                                                                                                             Site Code           : 00000000
                                                                                                             Start Date          : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                             Page No             :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Unshifted
                 BROADWAY                                       REGENT                   BROADWAY                                   REGENT
                     Southbound                                    Westbound                 Northbound                                Eastbound
 Start Time     Left Thru Right                        Peds   Left Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right                  Peds     Left Thru Right                  Peds Int. Total
    07:00 AM      4   146     1                           1     7     2     1      3      0    191   32                     9       2     1     1                     0       401
    07:15 AM     11   152     3                           1     5     2    12      4      1    231   44                    14       5     2     2                     3       492
    07:30 AM     12   185     2                           2     5     3    11     26      0    325   68                    32       4     4     0                     1       680
    07:45 AM     24   174     2                           0     5     5    15     12      0    334   49                    15       8     5     0                     1       649
        Total    51   657     8                           4    22    12    39     45      1 1081    193                    70      19    12     3                     5     2222

    08:00 AM     16         176            4              2     8     6      10           6        0       328     46      18       7            5             3      0      635
    08:15 AM     13         192            4              1    10     8      18           9        0       306     67      18       4            0             1      0      651
    08:30 AM     29         179            7              5    17     5      29          28        0       388     74      50       9            3             1      0      824
    08:45 AM     24         171            6              4    16     6      24          17        0       314     45      30      10            2             1      3      673
        Total    82         718           21             12    51    25      81          60        0      1336    232     116      30           10             6      3     2783

  Grand Total   133       1375          29               16     73   37     120      105           1      2417    425     186       49          22           9         8    5005
   Apprch %      8.6       88.5         1.9               1   21.8   11    35.8     31.3           0       79.8     14     6.1    55.7          25        10.2       9.1
     Total %     2.7       27.5         0.6             0.3    1.5   0.7     2.4      2.1          0       48.3    8.5     3.7       1          0.4        0.2       0.2


                                                                            BROADWAY
                                                                            Out    In             Total
                                                                            2586  1553            4139


                                                                              29 1375          133   16
                                                                           Right Thru         Left Peds
                           155


                                       49




                                                                                                                                   Right Thru
                          Total




                                     Left




                                                                                                                                     120



                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                                                                                                                                  580

                                                                                                                                                  REGENT




                                                                                        North
                                                  22
                                     Peds Right Thru
                                88




                                                                                                                                           37
                              In




                                                                                                                                                        In




                                                                            4/19/2007 07:00 AM
                                                                                                                                                         335
                                              9
                       REGENT




                                                                            4/19/2007 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                   Left Peds
                                                                                                                                     73
                         67




                                                                            Unshifted
                       Out




                                                                                                                                                 Total
                                        8




                                                                                                                                                  915
                                                                                                                                         105




                                                                           Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                               1 2417  425  186


                                                                            1457  3029            4486
                                                                            Out    In             Total
                                                                            BROADWAY
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                File Name          : REGENT&BROADWAYPM
                                                                                                                Site Code          : 00000000
                                                                                                                Start Date         : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                Page No            :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Unshifted
                 BROADWAY                                       REGENT                   BROADWAY                                     REGENT
                     Southbound                                    Westbound                 Northbound                                  Eastbound
 Start Time     Left Thru Right                        Peds   Left Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right                    Peds     Left Thru Right                    Peds Int. Total
    04:00 PM     44   368     2                           2    54    19    19     14      0    396   13                      10       9     8     6                       0       964
    04:15 PM     39   374     7                           4    63    17    37     35      0    382    5                       9       6    10     6                       8     1002
    04:30 PM     20   375     5                          15    54     7    38      8      0    383    7                       9      12     8     9                       0       950
    04:45 PM     42   389     6                          13    58    17    35     20      0    329    5                      26      18     7    12                       5       982
        Total   145 1506     20                          34   229    60   129     77      0 1490     30                      54      45    33    33                      13     3898

    05:00 PM     42        433            11             10    70       27      30          49        0       378     8       8       10             4             5      0     1085
    05:15 PM     24        411             8              9   104        7      33          19        0       314    16       9        9            20             4      0      987
    05:30 PM     28        461             6              1    71        9      31          22        1       349    10      14       13             7             6      0     1029
    05:45 PM     55        412             9              6    66       24      22          31        0       364    14      26       23            17             3      0     1072
        Total   149       1717            34             26   311       67     116         121        1      1405    48      57       55            48            18      0     4173

  Grand Total   294       3223          54               60    540     127    245      198            1      2895    78     111      100             81        51         13    8071
   Apprch %      8.1       88.8         1.5             1.7   48.6    11.4    22.1     17.8           0       93.8   2.5     3.6    40.8           33.1      20.8        5.3
     Total %     3.6       39.9         0.7             0.7     6.7     1.6      3      2.5           0       35.9     1     1.4      1.2             1       0.6        0.2


                                                                               BROADWAY
                                                                               Out    In             Total
                                                                               3240  3631            6871


                                                                                 54 3223          294   60
                                                                              Right Thru         Left Peds
                           427


                                      100




                                                                                                                                      Right Thru
                          Total




                                     Left




                                                                                                                                        245



                                                                                                                                                     Out
                                                                                                                                                      453

                                                                                                                                                      REGENT




                                                                                           North
                                                  81
                                     Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                             127
                               245
                              In




                                                                                                                                                           1110
                                                                                                                                                            In




                                                                               4/19/2007 04:00 PM
                                             51
                       REGENT




                                                                               4/19/2007 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                      Left Peds
                                                                                                                                       540
                        182




                                                                               Unshifted
                       Out




                                                                                                                                                     Total
                                       13




                                                                                                                                                     1563
                                                                                                                                            198




                                                                              Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                  1 2895   78  111


                                                                               3814  3085            6899
                                                                               Out    In             Total
                                                                               BROADWAY
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                    File Name        : UNIVERSITY&BROADWAYAM
                                                                                                                    Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                                                    Start Date       : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                    Page No          :1


                                                                                    Groups Printed- Unshifted
                         BROADWAY                                              UNIVERSITY             BROADWAY                                             UNIVERSITY
                         Southbound                                            Westbound                  Northbound                                        Eastbound
 Start Time     Left      Thru Right                            Peds   Left     Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right                 Peds    Left           Thru Right                Peds Int. Total
    07:00 AM      2        108     1                               1     9         5     5      2     14    104   15                    3      1               6    25                   3       304
    07:15 AM      2        121     3                               1    18        10     5      0      8    133   33                    7      3              15    25                   4       388
    07:30 AM      6        122     2                               5    27         5     2      2     14    163   43                    4      1               8    40                   7       451
    07:45 AM     10        144     3                              22    33        11     4     16     26    190   49                   38      6              22    34                  32       640
        Total    20        495     9                              29    87        31    16     20     62    590  140                   52     11              51   124                  46     1783

    08:00 AM      6             151                 0              4    21        8       2           4       27       247     48      17      6             15                  22     21      599
    08:15 AM      7             133                 7             22    40        9       4           5       22       246     41      27      5             24                  22     20      634
    08:30 AM      4             154                 3             20    31       12       4          19       24       231     29      37      5             23                  22     14      632
    08:45 AM      5             149                 8             14    42       11       7          11       28       249     50      23     10             20                  30     14      671
        Total    22             587                18             60   134       40      17          39      101       973    168     104     26             82                  96     69     2536

  Grand Total    42         1082                 27               89    221       71     33       59         163      1563    308     156     37            133            220        115      4319
   Apprch %     3.4          87.3                2.2             7.2   57.6     18.5    8.6     15.4          7.4      71.4   14.1     7.1   7.3            26.3           43.6       22.8
     Total %      1          25.1                0.6             2.1     5.1     1.6    0.8      1.4          3.8      36.2    7.1     3.6   0.9             3.1            5.1        2.7


                                                                                               BROADWAY
                                                                                        Out        In   Total
                                                                                        1633      1240  2873


                                                                                          27 1082           42   89
                                                                                       Right Thru         Left Peds
                                       766


                                                37




                                                                                                                                              Right Thru
                                      Total




                                              Left




                                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                                                 33


                                                                                                                                                               483




                                                                                                    North
                                                          133




                                                                                                                                                              UNIVERSITY
                           UNIVERSITY




                                              Peds Right Thru
                                 505




                                                                                                                                                      71
                                In




                                                                                                                                                                  In




                                                                                        4/19/2007 07:00 AM
                                                                                                                                                                   384
                                                     220




                                                                                        4/19/2007 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                              Left Peds
                                                                                                                                               221
                        261




                                                                                        Unshifted
                       Out




                                                                                                                                                                         Total
                                               115




                                                                                                                                                                          867
                                                                                                                                                     59




                                                                                       Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                        163 1563   308  156


                                                                                        1523  2190            3713
                                                                                        Out    In             Total
                                                                                        BROADWAY
All Traffic Data Services, Inc.
9660 W. 44th Ave.
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
                                                                                                                     File Name        : UNIVERSITY&BROADWAYPM
                                                                                                                     Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                                                     Start Date       : 4/19/2007
                                                                                                                     Page No          :1


                                                                                    Groups Printed- Unshifted
                         BROADWAY                                              UNIVERSITY             BROADWAY                                             UNIVERSITY
                         Southbound                                            Westbound                  Northbound                                        Eastbound
 Start Time     Left      Thru Right                            Peds   Left     Thru Right Peds      Left Thru Right                  Peds   Left           Thru Right             Peds Int. Total
    04:00 PM     10        245     8                              27    53        18     9     30     17    218   73                    62    14              39    24               47       894
    04:15 PM      4        243     3                              23    54        19     7     27     27    229   67                    64     7              32    24               21       851
    04:30 PM     11        212     7                              24    68        28     5     19     31    231   42                    58    16              38    20               38       848
    04:45 PM      5        240     8                              27    54        18     8     24     29    227   81                    57    14              38    39               14       883
        Total    30        940    26                             101   229        83    29    100    104    905  263                   241    51             147   107              120     3476

    05:00 PM      9          262                   12             18    66        19       2          24       37       231     76      57    13             26               26     24      902
    05:15 PM      6          304                   10             15    74        20      13          12       31       272     60      47    14             35               28      9      950
    05:30 PM      5          224                    7             23    62        26       4          12       26       230     76      41     8             29               19     33      825
    05:45 PM     13          271                    8             16    68        28       8          14       28       237     62      39    10             41               30     35      908
        Total    33         1061                   37             72   270        93      27          62      122       970    274     184    45            131              103    101     3585

  Grand Total    63         2001                 63              173    499      176     56      162          226      1875    537    425      96            278            210     221     7061
   Apprch %     2.7            87                2.7             7.5   55.9     19.7     6.3     18.1          7.4      61.2   17.5   13.9   11.9           34.5           26.1    27.5
     Total %    0.9          28.3                0.9             2.5     7.1      2.5    0.8      2.3          3.2      26.6    7.6      6    1.4             3.9             3      3.1


                                                                                                BROADWAY
                                                                                         Out        In   Total
                                                                                         2027      2300  4327


                                                                                           63 2001           63  173
                                                                                        Right Thru         Left Peds
                                      1270


                                                96




                                                                                                                                              Right Thru
                                      Total




                                              Left




                                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                                                 56


                                                                                                                                                               878




                                                                                                     North
                                                          278




                                                                                                                                                              UNIVERSITY
                           UNIVERSITY




                                              Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                     176
                                 805
                                In




                                                                                                                                                                  In




                                                                                         4/19/2007 04:00 PM
                                                                                                                                                                   893
                                                     210




                                                                                         4/19/2007 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                              Left Peds
                                                                                                                                               499
                        465




                                                                                         Unshifted
                       Out




                                                                                                                                                                         Total
                                               221




                                                                                                                                                                         1771
                                                                                                                                                    162




                                                                                        Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                         226 1875   537  425


                                                                                         2710  3063            5773
                                                                                         Out    In             Total
                                                                                         BROADWAY
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                             File Name     : WBUS36&BASELINEAM
                                                                                   Site Code     : 00000000
                                                                                   Start Date    : 5/2/2006
                                                                                   Page No       :1


                                                Groups Printed- Unshifted - BIKES - HV
                   WB US36 RAMP                   BASELINE                 WB US36 RAMP                 BASELINE
                    Southbound                   Westbound                   Northbound                 Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds         Left Thru Right Peds       Left Thru Right Peds      Left   Thru Right    Peds Int. Total
   07:00 AM     18   112     0    2           0     0       0     0       0    111      8  2     100       1    25       0      379
   07:15 AM     31   107     0    0           0     0       0     0       0    133     23  7      88       5    39       0      433
   07:30 AM     48   150     0    4           0     0       0     0       0    166     16  5     117       1    41       1      549
   07:45 AM     65   190     0    0           0     0       0     0       0    220     20  3     135       7    39       0      679
       Total   162   559     0    6           0     0       0     0       0    630     67 17     440      14   144       1    2040

   08:00 AM     64     178       0     2      0     0     0      0     0    195     15      3    119      3    35        0      614
   08:15 AM     54     178       0     3      0     0     0      0     0    214     22      4    134      3    49        0      661
   08:30 AM     55     164       0     4      0     0     0      0     0    212     19      5    109      5    39        2      614
   08:45 AM     76     154       0     0      0     0     0      0     0    221     20      3    147     11    38        0      670
       Total   249     674       0     9      0     0     0      0     0    842     76     15    509     22   161        2     2559

 Grand Total   411    1233       0    15      0     0     0      0     0   1472    143     32    949     36   305        3     4599
   Apprch %    24.8    74.3      0    0.9     0     0     0      0     0    89.4    8.7   1.9    73.4   2.8   23.6     0.2
    Total %     8.9    26.8      0    0.3     0     0     0      0     0      32    3.1    0.7   20.6   0.8     6.6    0.1
   Unshifted   410    1229       0    13      0     0     0      0     0   1465    141     32    948     36    302       3     4579
 % Unshifted   99.8    99.7      0   86.7     0     0     0      0     0    99.5   98.6   100    99.9   100      99    100      99.6
     BIKES        0       1      0      1     0     0     0      0     0       2      0      0      0     0       0      0         4
   % BIKES        0     0.1      0    6.7     0     0     0      0     0     0.1      0      0      0     0       0      0       0.1
         HV       1       3      0      1     0     0     0      0     0       5      2      0      1     0       3      0       16
      % HV      0.2     0.2      0    6.7     0     0     0      0     0     0.3    1.4      0    0.1     0       1      0       0.3
All Traffic Data Services, Inc
9660 W 44th Ave
Wheat Ridge, CO 80033
www.alltrafficdata.net                                                             File Name     : WBUS36&BASELINEPM
                                                                                   Site Code     : 00000000
                                                                                   Start Date    : 5/2/2006
                                                                                   Page No       :1


                                                Groups Printed- Unshifted - BIKES - HV
                   WB US36 RAMP                   BASELINE                 WB US36 RAMP                 BASELINE
                    Southbound                   Westbound                   Northbound                 Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru Right Peds         Left Thru Right Peds       Left Thru Right Peds      Left   Thru Right    Peds Int. Total
   04:00 PM     92   191     0    6           0     0       0     0       0    242     18 2       80       1    20       0      652
   04:15 PM     76   165     0   12           0     0       0     0       0    235     19 3      116       4    22       0      652
   04:30 PM     85   154     0    4           0     0       0     0       0    260     27 0       71       4    32       0      637
   04:45 PM     63   176     0    4           0     0       0     0       0    263     24 4       69       2    31       0      636
       Total   316   686     0   26           0     0       0     0       0 1000       88 9      336      11   105       0    2577

   05:00 PM     93     216       0     5      0     0     0     0      0    286     21      1     87      4     31       0      744
   05:15 PM     78     211       0     3      0     0     0     0      0    301     24      5     83      4     39       0      748
   05:30 PM     81     171       0     0      0     0     0     0      0    299     24      2    104      5     31       0      717
   05:45 PM     81     176       0     7      0     0     0     0      0    253     17      2     87      1     31       0      655
       Total   333     774       0    15      0     0     0     0      0   1139     86     10    361     14    132       0     2864

 Grand Total   649    1460       0    41      0     0     0     0      0   2139    174     19    697     25    237       0     5441
   Apprch %    30.2    67.9      0    1.9     0     0     0     0      0    91.7    7.5    0.8   72.7    2.6   24.7      0
    Total %    11.9    26.8      0    0.8     0     0     0     0      0    39.3    3.2    0.3   12.8    0.5    4.4      0
   Unshifted   647    1459       0    41      0     0     0     0      0   2139    173     19    697      25   237       0     5437
 % Unshifted   99.7    99.9      0   100      0     0     0     0      0    100    99.4   100    100    100    100       0      99.9
     BIKES        0       0      0      0     0     0     0     0      0       0      1      0      0      0      0      0         1
   % BIKES        0       0      0      0     0     0     0     0      0       0    0.6      0      0      0      0      0         0
         HV       2       1      0      0     0     0     0     0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0         3
      % HV      0.3     0.1      0      0     0     0     0     0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0       0.1
