UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY

BERKELEY   DAVIS   IRVINE   LOS ANGELES   MERCED   RIVERSIDE   SAN DIEGO   SAN FRANCISCO          SANTA BARBARA   SANTA CRUZ




   CAPITAL PROJECTS
   PHYSICAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL PLANNING
   300 A & E BUILDING, # 1382
   BERKELEY, CALIFORNIA 94720-1382

   March 2013


                                          DRAFT SUBSEQUENT EIR

                       TO THE 2020 LONG RAN GE DEVELOPMENT PLAN

                                 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT


                   Project Title:         Cal Aquatics Center

                   Project Location:      The approximately one-acre project site is located south of the
                                          Campus Park, across Bancroft Way from Edwards Stadium/
                                          Goldman Field. The site address is 2222 Bancroft Way. The site is
                                          bounded to the north by Bancroft Way, to the west by Fulton
                                          Street, to the south by Durant Avenue, and to the east by the Tang
                                          Center.

                   County:                Alameda County, California

                   Program EIR:           UC Berkeley 2020 Long Range Development Plan EIR, certified by
                                          The Regents January 2005, SCH #2003082131; as updated and
                                          amended in July 2009 by LRDP Amendment #1 to address Climate
                                          Change.



                                    1. INTRODUCTION & SUMMARY

   1.1      INTRODUCTION
   The University of California, Berkeley, proposes to construct a new aquatics facility on an existing one
   acre, 230 parking space, University-owned surface parking lot with frontage on Bancroft Way and Durant
   Avenue, across Bancroft Way from Edwards Stadium/Goldman Field. The UC Berkeley aquatics
   programs have a shortage of water space for Intercollegiate Athletics and other users, including
   recreational swimmers, physical education students, and community partners; the proposed new
   Aquatics Center would free up water space for these other users.

   The facility would consist of three one-story buildings surrounding a 52-meter swimming pool with a
   dive tower. The main building, fronting Bancroft Way, would contain a team meeting/multi-purpose
   room, the main entry passage way, and the main pool mechanical rooms. The main entry would be
   centered between the Edwards Field concrete pylons across the street as a way of visually connecting
   back to the University and the athletics precinct. The main pool mechanical rooms, located within the east


   UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                                1
DRAFT SUBSEQUENT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT



end of the building, would offer access for chlorine delivery from Bancroft Way. The locker room
building would be sited along the west edge of the project site and contain locker rooms, showers and
restrooms for the men's and women's water polo, swimming and diving teams. Public restroom would
be attached to the north end of the building. The third building would be a pool storage building, sited
along the entire 52-meter length of the pool on the east edge of the project site. A mechanical room for
the dive spa would be located within the south end of the storage building mass. The dive tower would
be 46 feet in height and would be placed at the south end of the pool. The dive tower would have 10-
meter, 7.5-meter, five-meter, three-meter and one-meter diving platforms. The dive tower would also
have a glass stairway enclosure to protect the divers from the weather as they ascend to the various
platforms. Two 10-foot high springboard platforms on either side of the dive tower would accommodate
one-meter and three-meter springboard platforms, respectively. A security handrail would extend above
and around the top of the platform.

The project would not include any permanent seating for spectators, as the extensive decking around the
pool at the Aquatics Center would be used primarily for land-side training. However, in the rare instance
when event seating is required, the deck areas would accommodate temporary bleachers for up to 500
spectators. For the rare evening competitive event, the project includes event lighting to meet the Pac 12
Network lighting requirements of a 70-footcandle average maintained over the main deck and pool. This
would be achieved with LED fixtures mounted on 25-foot high poles, evenly spaced along the east and
west sides of the pool. The lights would only be used at their full illumination for competitions, which
would be held approximately four times per year.

The existing mid-block passageway west of the Tang Center, allowing for pedestrians to traverse the
block from Durant Avenue through the site to Bancroft Way, would be retained and enhanced. New light
pole standards would be added to the mid-block passageway to keep it safely lit at night. For security,
the facility would be enclosed with a minimum eight-foot high metal fence. A portion of the existing
parking would be retained and reconfigured to allow 49 angled parking spaces along the west edge of the
project site. Along Bancroft Way, new street trees and a new sidewalk would replace the existing site
border trees and sidewalk. Planters and bicycle parking would also be added along the front of the
facility. Please see Section 2, Project Description, for additional project information and project plans.

In addition to design approval, a minor text amendment to the Long Range Development Plan is
proposed to accommodate the proposed land use on the project site.

In accordance with CEQA (Public Resources Code Section 21000 et seq.), and the University of California
Procedures for Implementation of CEQA, this document was prepared to evaluate the Project as a whole,
or to examine any changes to the circumstances under which the Project will be undertaken from that
described and analyzed in the 2020 LRDP EIR. The analysis herein concludes that the Project is largely
consistent with the UC Berkeley 2020 LRDP EIR, certified by The Regents in January 2005. However, the
University has determined that a Subsequent EIR (hereafter, SEIR) is required, itself in the form of the
additional environmental analysis contained herein, to update and augment the 2020 LRDP EIR to reflect
the Project as proposed. The circumstance triggering the need for additional review is the potential for
inconsistency with the City of Berkeley's Southside Plan, a circumstance not identified as such or
specifically analyzed in the 2020 LRDP EIR.

1.2     ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW AND SUMMARY OF CONCLUSIONS
An environmental assessment has been prepared in accordance with CEQA, the CEQA Guidelines, and
University of California Guidelines for the Implementation of CEQA, to determine the appropriate level
of environmental review of the Project.

UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                          2
DRAFT SUBSEQUENT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT



The environmental analysis for the proposed Project is tiered from the 2020 LRDP Final EIR (State
Clearinghouse [SCH] No. 2003082131) certified by the University of California Board of Regents (The
Regents) on January, 2005. The LRDP Final EIR is a Program EIR and was prepared in accordance with
the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (Public Resources Code, §21000, et seq., specifically,
§21094), the CEQA Guidelines (Title 14, California Code of Regulations [CCR], §§15000 et seq.), and the
University of California Procedures for the Implementation of CEQA.

Section 15152 of the CEQA Guidelines states, "`Tiering' refers to using the analysis of general matters
contained in a broader EIR (such as one prepared for a general plan or policy statement) with later EIRs
and negative declarations on narrower projects; incorporating by reference the general discussions from
the broader EIR; and concentrating the later EIR or negative declaration solely on issues specific to the
later project." CEQA and the CEQA Guidelines encourage the use of tiered environmental documents to
eliminate repetitive discussions of the same issues. Therefore, this Subsequent EIR is hereby tiered from
the LRDP Final EIR. The LRDP EIR document is available for review at lrdp.berkeley.edu.

The LRDP Final EIR analyzes the direct and indirect impacts resulting from implementation of the
development allocation on the campus through the year 2020. Measures to mitigate, to the extent feasible,
the significant adverse LRDP project (direct and indirect) and cumulative impacts identified for that
development are identified in the Final EIR.

Section 15152(f) of the CEQA Guidelines instructs that when tiering, a later EIR or Negative Declaration
shall be prepared only when, in the basis of an Initial Study, the later project may cause significant effects
on the environment that were not adequately addressed in the prior EIR or Negative Declaration.
Significant environmental effects are considered to have been "adequately addressed" if the lead agency
determines that:

    (A)     they have been mitigated or avoided as a result of the prior environmental impact report and
            findings adopted in connection with that prior environmental report;
    (B)     they have been examined at a sufficient level of detail in the prior environmental impact
            report to enable those effects to be mitigated or avoided by site specific revisions, the
            imposition of conditions, or by other means in connection with the approval of the later
            project; or
    (C)     they cannot be mitigated to avoid or substantially lessen the significant impacts despite the
            project proponent's willingness to accept all feasible mitigation measures, and the only
            purpose of including analysis of such effects in another environmental impact report would
            be to put the agency in a position to adopt a statement of overriding considerations with
            respect to the effects.

Following review of the proposed LRDP Project and the analysis presented in the LRDP Final EIR, it has
been determined that the proposed Cal Aquatics Project is a "project" under CEQA that was n ot fully
addressed in the Final EIR; therefore, additional environmental review is required. Accordingly, this
Subsequent EIR has been prepared.

In conjunction with certification of the LRDP Final EIR and approval of the LRDP, The Regents also
adopted a Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program (MMRP). The MMRP ensures that campus
continuing best practices (CBPs) and mitigation measures (MMs) that are the responsibility of the
University of California are implemented in a timely manner. As individual projects, such as the
proposed Project, are designed and constructed, the projects include features necessary to implement
relevant CBPs and MMs. In accordance with The Regents' approval of the LRDP and certification of the
Final EIR, all relevant LRDP EIR CBPs and MMs are incorporated into the proposed Project description


UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                              3
DRAFT SUBSEQUENT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT



and will be implemented as a part of the project and monitored through the MMRP approved for the
LRDP Final EIR. Relevant LRDP EIR CBPs and MMs are listed in the introduction to the analysis for each
topical issue in Section V, Environmental Evaluation. In addition to CBPs and MMs from the LRDP EIR
MMRP relevant to the proposed Project, this SEIR identifies and proposes for adoption new, project-
specific mitigation measures to reduce project specific environmental impacts to a less-than-significant
level in Utilities; the SEIR finds a significant unavoidable land use impact due to inconsistency of the
proposed minor LRDP text amendment with the original land use analysis in the 2020 LRDP EIR.

In summary, this SEIR provides a project-specific environmental analysis to determine if the proposed
minor LRDP text amendment and Project would result in any significant impacts not adequately
addressed in the LRDP Final EIR and/or if additional mitigation measures beyond those adopted in the
MMRP for the LRDP Final EIR would be required to reduce identified impacts to a less than significant
level.

The 2020 LRDP EIR indicated that projects implementing the 2020 LRDP would be examined to
determine whether subsequent project­specific environmental documents are required. The 2020 LRDP
EIR states:

   CEQA and the CEQA Guidelines state that subsequent projects should be examined in light of the
   programlevel EIR to determine whether subsequent projectspeci fic environmental documents
   must be prepared. If no new significant effects would occur, all significant effects have been
   adequately addressed, and no new mitigation measures would be required, subsequent projects
   within the scope of the 2020 LRDP could rely on the environmental analysis presented in the
   programlevel EIR, and no subsequent environmental documents would be required; otherwise,
   projectspecific environmental documents must be prepared (2020 LRDP EIR Vol I page 12).

The use of the 2020 LRDP and 2020 LRDP EIR in project review was also specifically addressed in the first
Thematic Response to comments received on the 2020 LRDP Draft EIR (2020 LRDP EIR Vol 3a, page 11.1
1). There, the document reiterated the text quoted above, and explained:

   Projects subsequently proposed must be examined for consistency with the program as described
   in the 2020 LRDP and with the environmental impact analysis contained in the 2020 LRDP EIR; if
   new environmental impacts would occur, or if new mitigation measures would be required, an
   additional environmental document would be prepared.

Section 15162 of the CEQA Guidelines (Title 14, California Code of Regulations, Sections 15000 et seq) sets
forth the circumstances under which a project may warrant a Subsequent EIR or Negative Declaration:

    (a) When an EIR has been certified or a negative declaration adopted for a project, no subsequent
        EIR shall be prepared for that project unless the lead agency determines, on the basis of
        substantial evidence in the light of the whole record, one or more of the following:
            (1) Substantial changes are proposed in the project which will require major revisions of the
                previous EIR or negative declaration due to the involvement of new significant
                environmental effects or a substantial increase in the severity of previously identified
                significant effects;
            (2) Substantial changes occur with respect to the circumstances under which the project is
                undertaken which will require major revisions of the previous EIR or Negative
                Declaration due to the involvement of new significant environmental effects or a
                substantial increase in the severity of previously identified significant effects; or

UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                           4
DRAFT SUBSEQUENT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT



            (3) New information of substantial importance, which was not known and could not have
                been known with the exercise of reasonable diligence at the time the previous EIR was
                certified as complete or the Negative Declaration was adopted, shows any of the
                following:
                       (A) The project will have one or more significant effects not discussed in the
                           previous EIR or negative declaration;
                       (B) Significant effects previously examined will be substantially more severe than
                           shown in the previous EIR;
                       (C) Mitigation measures or alternatives previously found not to be feasible would
                           in fact be feasible, and would substantially reduce one or more significant
                           effects of the project, but the project proponents decline to adopt the mitigation
                           measure or alternative; or
                       (D) Mitigation measures or alternatives which are considerably different from
                           those analyzed in the previous EIR would substantially reduce one or more
                           significant effects on the environment, but the project proponents decline to
                           adopt the mitigation measure or alternative.

As stated above, the analysis herein concludes that the Project is largely consistent with the UC Berkeley
2020 LRDP EIR, certified by The Regents in January 2005. However, the University has determined that a
Subsequent EIR (hereafter, SEIR) is required, itself in the form of the additional environmental analysis
contained herein, to update and augment the 2020 LRDP EIR to reflect the Project as proposed. The
circumstance triggering the need for additional review is the potential for inconsistency with the City of
Berkeley's Southside Plan, a circumstance not identified as such or specifically analyzed in the 2020 LRDP
EIR.

The University published and circulated a Notice of Preparation (NOP) of a Draft EIR for the Cal
Aquatics Center project on February 1, 2013. The University received seven comment letters during the
30-day NOP review period, from the following agencies, groups and individuals:

           Scott Morgan, Director, State Clearinghouse, California Governor's Office of Planning and
           Research
           Beth Walukas, Deputy Director of Planning, Alameda County Transportation Commission
           Michael Vecchio, City of Berkeley Public Works, Traffic Engineering
           Dan Gallagher, City of Berkeley Senior Forestry Supervisor
           John Caner, Executive Director, Downtown Berkeley Association
           Roland Peterson, Executive Director, Telegraph Business Improvement District
           Ann Slaby (two letters)

Topics of concern in the comment letters included parking supply, Bancroft Way walkability and
pedestrian-serving design and programming, street tree protection, facility lighting impacts, and scenic
view impacts. Each of these topics is addressed in the SEIR. The letters are included in Appendix H.

Community members are invited to attend a public hearing to provide comment on the SEIR on April 3,
2013 in the University Health Services Tang Center at beginning at 6:00 pm. Comments on the SEIR must
be received in the UC Berkeley Planning Office, 300 A&E Building, UC Berkeley, Berkeley, CA 947201382
or via email to planning@berkeley.edu, by 5:00 PM on April 24, 2013. For more information contact
Jennifer McDougall, Principal Planner, at (510) 6 427720.




UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                             5
DRAFT SUBSEQUENT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT



Copies of the SEIR, the 2020 LRDP EIR and Addendum #5 thereto, from which the SEIR is tiered, are
available for review during normal operating hours at the offices of Capital Projects' Physical and
Environmental Planning offices, 3rd floor A&E Building on the UC Berkeley campus; and online at
http://www.cp.berkeley.edu.

The project is scheduled for consideration of design approval at the May 2013 meeting of the Regents of
the University of California committee on Grounds and Buildings.



1.3         ORGANIZATION OF THIS DOCUMENT/TABLE OF CONTENTS
This Subsequent EIR is organized into the following sections:

Section 1 Introduction & Summary. Summarizes the purpose of the SEIR, the CEQA provisions
applicable to the project, the approval process for the Project .................................................................. page 1

Section 2 Project Description. Presents the need for the project, project objectives, the planning
context for the project, and describes the building and the program ....................................................... page 7

Section 3 Relationship to 2020 LRDP. Describes the consistency of the Project with the UC Berkeley
2020 Long Range Development Plan and its Environmental Impact Report ......................................... page 32

Section 4 Environmental Determination. States the appropriate level of environmental
documentation based on the findings of the Environmental Evaluation ............................................... page 37

Section 5 Environmental Evaluation. Presents a topicbytopic evaluation of potential environmental
impacts based on the checklist questions set forth in Appendix G of the CEQA Guidelines .............. page 38

Section 6 Alternatives ................................................................................................................................. page 138

Appendices:
   Appendix A:                       Draft Proposed Minor LRDP Text Amendment
   Appendix B:                       Projectspecific design guidelines as required by the 2020 LRDP EIR.
   Appendix C:                       Air Quality Modeling Results
   Appendix D:                       Project Noise Study
   Appendix E:                       Technical Appendix to the Transportation Analysis
   Appendix F:                       Relevant 2020 LRDP EIR Mitigation Measures
   Appendix G:                       Cumulative Foreseeable Projects (list)
   Appendix H:                       Public Comments in Response to the Notice of Preparation




UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                                                                                6
DRAFT SUBSEQUENT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT




                                2. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.1 PROJECT LOCATION
UC Berkeley is located approximately ten miles east of San Francisco, as shown in Figure 1. Interstate 80,
Highway 13, Highway 24, and Interstate 580 provide regional vehicular access to the campus. Regional
transit access is provided by Bay Area Rapid Transit District (BART) and Alameda-Contra Costa Transit
(AC Transit).

As shown in Figure 2, the project site is located across Bancroft Way from the southwest corner of the
campus, just east of the intersection of Fulton Street and Bancroft Way. The site is bordered on the south
by Durant Avenue and multi-family residential uses across Durant Avenue; on the west by the UC Public
Affairs building; on the north by Bancroft Way and the sports precinct within the Campus Park across
Bancroft Way; and on the east by the Tang Center.

2.2 SITE DESCRIPTION
The project site, referred to on campus maps as the Bancroft/Fulton Parking Lot, is a rectangular, paved
surface parking lot developed with approximately 230 parking spaces and a small parking kiosk. The site is
generally flat, sloping gently to the southwest. The perimeter of the site is lined with non-native landscape
and street trees. London plane trees line the Bancroft Way sidewalk frontage, in addition to two
pittosporum at the northeast corner of the site. Several eucalyptuses and one live oak tree (of seven inches
diameter at breast height) grow just outside of the western property boundary, adjacent to the UC Public
Affairs building. The existing mid-block pedestrian passageway along the eastern boundary of the site is
lined with ornamental pear trees. Melaleuca trees line the Durant Avenue sidewalk frontage. The parkway
along Durant Avenue is also planted with London planes. Low hedges separate the parking lot from the
Bancroft Way and Durant Avenue sidewalks. Light standards of approximately 25 feet in height, each with
two fixtures, provide night lighting throughout the night, along with street lights on Bancroft Way and
Durant Avenue. Figures 3a through 3e show existing conditions on and adjacent to the project site.

The project site is located within the area designated in the 2020 LRDP as the "city environs," defined to
include the Adjacent Blocks, the Southside, Other Berkeley Sites, and the Housing Zone in its entirety: in
other words, the entire scope of the 2020 LRDP except for the Campus Park and Hill Campus. The areas
within the City Environs are similar in consisting mostly of city blocks served by city streets, and include
University-owned properties interspersed with non-university properties. Within the city environs, the
site is within the designated Adjacent Blocks West land use zone. The Adjacent Blocks West are defined
as the blocks defined by Oxford, Virginia, Walnut, Hearst, Shattuck, Durant, Ellsworth, and the Campus
Park. Major campus facilities on these blocks include the Tang Health Center, the University Printing
Plant, University Hall, 2195 Hearst, and the plant research facilities of the Oxford Tract.

The northern boundary of the project site has frontage along Bancroft Way, a major one-way traffic
corridor that forms part of the perimeter street network around the Berkeley campus. The Bancroft
sidewalk, and similarly but to a lesser extent the Durant Avenue sidewalk, are intensely used circulation
corridors for pedestrians and transit commuters, particularly east of the site as they approach major
intersections with Telegraph Avenue. Hundreds of public transit buses and campus shuttles stop on
Bancroft Way within a typical school day 24-hour period. Office and institutional buildings line the south
side of Bancroft in the project vicinity. Beyond Bancroft Way to the south is the southern portion of the
Southside area of the City of Berkeley, with its mixed-use character of residential, institutional and some
commercial uses.




UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                             7
D R A F T S U B S E QU E N T E N V I RO N M E N TA L I M PAC T R E P O RT




                                               Regional Location
                                                                            Figure 1
U C B E R K E L EY C A L AQUAT I C S C E N T E R
D R A F T S U B S E QU E N T E N V I RO N M E N TA L I M PAC T R E P O RT




                                        Aerial View of Project Site
                                           and Surroundings                 Figure 2
U C B E R K E L EY C A L AQUAT I C S C E N T E R
D R A F T S U B S E QU E N T E N V I RO N M E N TA L I M PAC T R E P O RT




  Photo 1 - View of the project site looking southeast across Bancroft Way. The Tang Center is the building to the
  left of the frame.




  Photo 2 - View of the project site looking north-northwest across Durant Avenue. The obelisks at the wall
  surrounding Goldman Field are visible across Bancroft Way in the background.




                                              Existing Conditions                                        Figure 3a
U C B E R K E L EY C A L AQUAT I C S C E N T E R
D R A F T S U B S E QU E N T E N V I RO N M E N TA L I M PAC T R E P O RT




  Photo 3 - View looking northeast across the project site from its western boundary. The Tang center is visible
  directly adjacent to the site and the Kleberger Field House, within the Campus Park, is visible in the left-of-frame
  background with the Berkeley Hills beyond..




  Photo 4 - View across the project site looking southwest from its eastern boundary. The Public Affairs building
  is visible adjacent to the site, as well as the eucalyptus and single oak tree along its eastern edge.


                                              Existing Conditions                                          Figure 3b
U C B E R K E L EY C A L AQUAT I C S C E N T E R
D R A F T S U B S E QU E N T E N V I RO N M E N TA L I M PAC T R E P O RT




  Photo 5 - View of residential buildings across Durant Avenue from the interior of the project site.




  Photo 6 - The project site's Bancroft Way frontage, looking east up Bancroft Way.




                                              Existing Conditions                                       Figure 3c
U C B E R K E L EY C A L AQUAT I C S C E N T E R
D R A F T S U B S E QU E N T E N V I RO N M E N TA L I M PAC T R E P O RT




  Photo 7 - The project site's Durant Avenue frontage, looking east up Durant Avenue.




  Photo 8 - The existing mid-block pedestrian pathway between the project site and the Tang Center, looking south.




                                              Existing Conditions                                     Figure 3d

U C B E R K E L EY C A L AQUAT I C S C E N T E R
DRAFT SUBSEQUENT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT




 Photo 9 - Nighttime view of the project site looking south across Bancroft Way. Four light standards are visible in
 the parking lot (project site); gas station lighting is visible in the background on the right.




 Photo 10 - Nighttime view of the project site looking north across Durant Avenue. Four light standards are visible in
 the parking lot (project site).




                                           Existing Conditions                                             Figure 3e
UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER
DRAFT SUBSEQUENT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT




2.3 NEED FOR THE PROJECT
UC Berkeley is one of only three NCAA aquatics programs in the country that provides participation
opportunities to athletes in men's swimming and diving, women's swimming and diving, men's water
polo, and women's water polo. Nearly 150 student athletes currently compete in these programs at Cal.

Despite the overwhelming success of these programs (with numerous NCAA team championships,
individual NCAA championships, and Olympic medals), they are constrained by a lack of capacity for
both training and competition, both in terms of times available for practice and amount of water space.
In addition, UC Berkeley has no dive tower. The aquatics programs are further hampered by inadequate
and obsolete land-side training facilities. The shortage of water space is a significant issue campus-wide
for Intercollegiate Athletics and other users, including recreational swimmers, physical education
students, and community partners; the proposed new Aquatics Center would free up water space for
these other users.

Finally, the increase in pool space would increase pool time availability for Cal athletes, providing greater
flexibility in scheduling training and practices around academic schedules. This flexibility would enhance
the athletes' ability to complete degree programs in a timely fashion, which would avoid constraining
limited student support resources within Cal Athletics. Aquatics athletes are a proportionally large share
of the post-eligibility student athletes that are nevertheless on athletic scholarship. Over the last eight
years there have been an average of 27 post-eligibility student athletes on athletic scholarship on campus.
On average, 34% of those athletes have been in the aquatics program.


2.4 PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The objectives of the proposed project are to:

            Address the current deficit in pool, and land-side training facilities for workouts and
            training, for the Cal Aquatics program;
            Provide a diving tower (currently competitive Cal divers must travel some distance to
            Stanford for practice weekly to use a dive tower);
            Reduce scheduling constraints for student athletes in aquatics that limits their ability to
            complete degree programs in a timely fashion, constraining limited student support
            resources within Cal Athletics;
            Provide additional aquatics capacity for UC Berkeley in new development in a location near
            to existing competition-level aquatics facilities and student life;
            Add facilities in an efficient manner, with minimal additional costs; and
            Design and build facilities that aesthetically enhance the city and the campus vicinity over
            existing conditions.



2.5 PROJECT DESCRIPTION
PROGRAM DESCRIPTION

The main overarching programmatic goal of the project is to alleviate shortage of water space for the UC
Berkeley aquatics programs with a new Aquatics Center.

The facility would consist of three one-story buildings surrounding a 52-meter swimming pool with a
dive tower. The main building, fronting Bancroft Way, would contain a team meeting/multi-purpose
room, the main entry passage way, and the main pool mechanical rooms. The main entry would be

UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                            15
DRAFT SUBSEQUENT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT



centered between the Edwards Field concrete pylons across the street as a way of visually connecting
back to the University and the athletics precinct. The main pool mechanical rooms, located within the east
end of the building, would offer access for chlorine delivery from Bancroft Way. The locker room
building would be sited along the west edge of the project site and contain locker rooms, showers and
restrooms for the men's and women's water polo, swimming and diving teams. Public restroom would
be attached to the north end of the building. The third building would be a pool storage building, sited
along the entire 52-meter length of the pool on the east edge of the project site. A mechanical room for the
dive spa would be located within the south end of the storage building mass.

The dive tower would be 46 feet in height and would be placed at the south end of the pool. The dive
tower would have 10-meter, 7.5-meter, five-meter, three-meter and one-meter diving platforms. The dive
tower would also have a glass stairway enclosure to protect the divers from the weather as they ascend to
the various platforms. Two 10-foot high springboard platforms on either side of the dive tower would
accommodate one-meter and three-meter springboard platforms, respectively. A security handrail would
extend above and around the top of the platform. Table 1 summarizes the proposed building program.
The proposed site plan and site and building elevations are shown in figures 4 through 8.

                                                 Table 1:
                                       Building Program Summary
                                                           Proposed Gross
                            Program Description                                Height
                                                             Square Feet

                      Main Building (team meeting/multi-
                      purpose room, main entry passage          4,970           21.2'
                       way, and main pool mechanical)

                        Locker Room Building (locker
                                                                4,370           15.3'
                       rooms, showers and restrooms)

                                Pool Storage                    1,520           9.3'

                                 Dive Tower                Approx. 20' x 30'     46'

                            Springboard Platforms          Approx. 12' x 19'   3' / 10'
                                                           Total sf: 10,860

                     Source: ELS, November 2012




UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                           16
D R A F T S U B S E QU E N T E N V I RO N M E N TA L I M PAC T R E P O RT




                                                   Proposed Site Plan
                                                                            Figure 4
U C B E R K E L EY C A L AQUAT I C S C E N T E R
D R A F T S U B S E QU E N T E N V I RO N M E N TA L I M PAC T R E P O RT




                                  Proposed Elevations - Entry/Team
                                   Meeting/Multi-Purpose Building
                                                                            Figure 5
U C B E R K E L EY C A L AQUAT I C S C E N T E R
D R A F T S U B S E QU E N T E N V I RO N M E N TA L I M PAC T R E P O RT




                                                        Proposed Elevations - Locker Room Building

                                                                                                     Figure 6
U C B E R K E L EY C A L AQUAT I C S C E N T E R
D R A F T S U B S E QU E N T E N V I RO N M E N TA L I M PAC T R E P O RT




                                                        Proposed Elevations - Bancroft Way Frontage

                                                                                                      Figure 7
U C B E R K E L EY C A L AQUAT I C S C E N T E R
D R A F T S U B S E QU E N T E N V I RO N M E N TA L I M PAC T R E P O RT




                            Proposed Elevations - West Elevation and
                                   Durant Avenue Frontage
                                                                            Figure 8
U C B E R K E L EY C A L AQUAT I C S C E N T E R
DRAFT SUBSEQUENT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT




Table 2 shows the typical weekly schedule for the proposed Cal Aquatics Center.

                                                Table 2:
                        Proposed Cal Aquatics Center Pool Schedule, Typical Week
   Monday           Tuesday         Wednesday         Thursday          Friday          Saturday           Sunday
  6:00am ­         6:00am ­          6:00am ­         6:00am ­         6:00am ­         6:00am ­          6:00am ­
7:00am wake-     7:00am wake-      7:00am wake-     7:00am wake-     7:00am wake-     7:00am wake-     7:00am wake-
 up swim for      up swim for       up swim for      up swim for      up swim for      up swim for      up swim for
Water Polo in-   Water Polo in-    Water Polo in-   Water Polo in-   Water Polo in-   Water Polo in-   Water Polo in-
   season            season           season           season           season           season            season
                                                                                                            Pool
    Swim              Swim              Swim           Swim             Swim             Swim            available to
   7:00am-           7:00am-           7:00am-        7:00am-          7:00am-          8:00am-               be
   9:30am            9:30am            9:30am         9:30am           9:30am           10:00am          scheduled
                                                                                                        by IA Teams
                                                                                                            Pool
 Diving/Open      Diving/Open       Diving/Open     Diving/Open      Diving/Open
                                                                                       Water Polo        available to
   IA Swim          IA Swim           IA Swim         IA Swim          IA Swim
                                                                                       10:00am ­              be
  10:00am ­        10:00am ­         10:00am ­       10:00am ­        10:00am ­
                                                                                        1:00pm           scheduled
    1:00pm           1:00pm            1:00pm          1:00pm           1:00pm
                                                                                                        by IA Teams
                                                                                          Pool              Pool
    Swim              Swim              Swim            Swim             Swim          available to      available to
  1:30pm ­          1:30pm ­          1:30pm ­        1:30pm ­         1:30pm ­             be                be
   3:30pm            3:30pm            3:30pm          3:30pm           3:30pm         scheduled         scheduled
                                                                                      by IA Teams       by IA Teams
                                                                                          Pool              Pool
 Water Polo        Water Polo        Water Polo      Water Polo       Water Polo       available to      available to
 3:30pm ­          3:30pm ­          3:30pm ­        3:30pm ­         3:30pm ­              be                be
  6:30pm            6:30pm            6:30pm          6:30pm           6:30pm          scheduled         scheduled
                                                                                      by IA Teams       by IA Teams
Source: UC Berkeley Aquatics, February 2013


The project would not include any permanent seating for spectators, as the Aquatics Center would be
used primarily for training. Spieker Pool would remain the primary competition venue for Cal Aquatics.
In rare instances some competitions may involve use of the new pool, however, allowing meets or
competitions to run events simultaneously rather than serially. On occasions when event seating is
required, the deck areas would accommodate temporary bleachers for up to 500 spectators. For the rare
evening competitive event, the project includes event lighting to meet the Pac 12 Network lighting
requirements of a 70-footcandle average maintained over the main deck and pool. This would be
achieved with LED fixtures mounted on 25-foot high poles, evenly spaced along the east and west sides
of the pool. These lights would only be used at full illumination for competition.

The primary noise sources at the new pool would be whistles, yelling and splashing during workouts and
practices. The facility would include a public address system (PA system). The purpose of the PA
system would be for use at events, expected to occur rarely at the new pool but for purposes of this EIR
assumed to occur four times a year. If it is used for music during training periods, operators would
ensure that volume is set so as to be inaudible at residences on Durant Avenue. The PA system would
not be used before 7:00 am on any day.

Although not expected to occur even this frequently (personal conversation, Deputy Director of Athletics
Teresa Kuehn-Gould), for purposes of analysis in this EIR, events are assumed to occur approximately
four times per year.




UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                                    22
DRAFT SUBSEQUENT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT



Under typical (non-event) conditions, ambient lighting on the pool deck would be approximately 15
footcandles, or the minimum needed for coaching functions (for example, reading a clipboard) and
safety. All lighting other than building and near ground-level safety lighting would be turned off by 10:00
PM.

The Cal Aquatics Center pool would be used for team practices, competitions and individual skill
training for intercollegiate men's and women's water polo, and men's and women's swimming and
diving. In addition, there would be activities outside of the water including stretching, cardio work and
other related training activities. On occasion, there would be clinics and camps for youth and other non-
student-athletes that include individual skill instruction and team activities. Tables 3 through 5 show how
aquatics program activities and locations and non-UC pool use would change with implementation of the
proposed project. It should be noted that the overall Cal aquatics program would not be expanded with
construction of the new aquatics center, but the location of practices would. Community use of the UC
facilities would be expected to expand, as shown in Table 5.

                                                Table 3:
                 Cal Aquatics Center and Spieker Aquatics Complex: UC Program Events
                                                                   Events (Meets/Matches)
                                                                                                                          Typical
                                                                                                                          Venue
                Season           Total                                                           #                         with
  UC                                                                         Average #
                (Months        Number of         Days of       Times of                       Visiting         TV         Project
Program                                                                          of
                of Year)         Home             Week           Day                           Team         trucks?      (Spieker
                                                                             Spectators
                                Events                                                        Buses                       or Cal
                                                                                                                         Aquatics
                                                                                                                          Center)

Men's
                                                Thursday -      11am -                        1 bus or      typically      All at
Swimming/        Oct-Feb          6/year                                       150-200
                                                 Saturday        4pm                           3 vans      one trailer    Spieker*
Diving


Women's
                                                Thursday -      11am -                        1 bus or      typically      All at
Swimming/        Oct-Feb          6/year                                       150-200
                                                 Saturday        4pm                           3 vans      one trailer    Spieker*
Diving
                 Sept-Dec
Men's                           7-8/year (if     Saturday       varies -
                (small # of                                                                   1 bus or      typically      All at
Water                           not hosting        and          typically      250-300
                 games in                                                                      3 vans      one trailer    Spieker*
Polo                           tournament)       Sunday         mid-day
                  Spring)
                 Jan-April
Women's                         7-8/year (if     Saturday       varies -
                (small # of                                                                   1 bus or      typically      All at
Water                           not hosting        and          typically      100-150
                 games in                                                                      3 vans      one trailer    Spieker*
Polo                           tournament)       Sunday         mid-day
                   Fall)
* In the event of a scheduling conflict that would require that a smaller event would be moved over to the new facility, or if
tournaments or other larger events hosted at Spieker would need a "warm up" pool or other back-up pool space for various aspects
of the event, event lighting and temporary bleachers are included in the project description. This would be estimated to occur a
maximum of four times per year. In addition, the diving portion of a competition otherwise held at Spieker would be held at the new
facility if tower events were included.
  Source: UC Berkeley Aquatics, February 2013




UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                                                   23
 DRAFT SUBSEQUENT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT



                                               Table 4:
            Cal Aquatics Center and Spieker Aquatics Complex: UC Program Practice/Training
                                                               Practice/Training Schedule
                  Season                                                  Typical     Coaching/           Typical practice
  UC                                                         Average
                (Months of                                                Student-     Training            location with
Program                         Days of        Times of      # on-site
                   Year)                                                  Athlete        Staff            Project (CAC =
                                 Week            Day          (either
                                                                           Travel      Parking             Cal Aquatics
                                                             location)
                                                                           Mode        Location               Center)
                                              6am-8am; 1-
Men's
                                Monday -         3:30pm                                  RSF Parking       Spieker - 75%;
Swimming/       Year-round                                      50          Bike, walk
                                Saturday       8-10am on                                     Lot            CAC - 25%
Diving
                                                   Sat.
                                              7-9am; 1:30-
Women's
                                Monday -         3:30pm                                  RSF Parking       Spieker - 25%;
Swimming/       Year-round                                      50          Bike, walk
                                Saturday       8-10am on                                     Lot            CAC - 75%
Diving
                                                   Sat.
                                               8am-11am;
Men's
                                Monday -      3:30-6:30pm                                RSF Parking       Spieker - 75%;
Water           Year-round                                      30          Bike, walk
                                Saturday      10am-12pm                                      Lot            CAC - 25%
Polo
                                                 on Sat.
                                               8am-11am;
Women's
                                Monday -      3:30-6:30pm                                RSF Parking       Spieker - 75%;
Water           Year-round                                      30          Bike, walk
                                Saturday      10am-12pm                                      Lot            CAC - 25%
Polo
                                                 on Sat.
Source: UC Berkeley Aquatics, February 2013


                                                 Table 5:
                Cal Aquatics Center and Spieker Aquatics Complex: Non-UC Program Uses
                         Use                                         Existing                   Future with Project

                                                             CAMPS
                                                                                              June through August
    Typical months camps are hosted:                June and July                             (and occasional
                                                                                              weekends other months)
    # camp days per year (weekdays):                approx. 10 days                           20-25 days
     # camp days per year (weekend days):           approx. 4 days                            8-10 days
    Typical hours of the camps:                     7:00am - 5:00pm                           7:00am - 5:00pm
    Camp enrollment
                                                                                              20-25 for specialty
        Low:                                        25 for Weekend Start/Turn Camps
                                                                                              clinics
                                                                                              120-150, depending on
        High:                                       120 for M-F Overnight Camps
                                                                                              sport
    Method of transportation
        Bus (%):                                                       5%                                 5%
        Personal transport (auto drop-off) (%):                       90%                                 90%
        Personal transport (bus, bike, walk %):                        5%                                 5%
    Location
        Spieker (% of total):                                         100%                             20-25%
        Cal Aquatics Center (% of total):                                                              75-80%
                                                  PUBLIC LAP SWIMMING
                                                    Year-round; M-F 10am-1pm and 6pm-          Additional times to be
    Months/Days/Times allowed:                      9pm; Saturday 12pm-8pm; Sunday            arranged ­ between 10
                                                    10am-8pm (flexible based on events)       and 20% more hours to


 UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                                        24
DRAFT SUBSEQUENT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT




                                               Table 5:
              Cal Aquatics Center and Spieker Aquatics Complex: Non-UC Program Uses
                      Use                                      Existing             Future with Project
                                                                                        be available
                                                                                    Expanded days and
                                                 50-75 depending on session and     hours would result in
   Average number participating:
                                                 weather                           additional participants;
                                                                                    numbers not known
   Location
    Spieker (% of total):                                       100%                       100%
    Cal Aquatics Center (% of total):                            0%                          0%
   Source: UC Berkeley Aquatics, February 2013


The Aquatics Center is not planned to be available for public lap swimming. The new facility is expected
to increase the University's capacity to host summer camps and specialty clinics from about 14 days per
year to approximately 28 to 35 days per year, during the months of June through August. The camps and
clinics, which currently take place at Spieker Pool, would shift to be held at Spieker Pool about 25% of the
time and at the Aquatics Center about 75% of the time. The existing camps and clinics range in
attendance from 25 to 120 people; attendance would increase by up to 30 people with the new Aquatics
Center. The overall amount of days and participants is expected to remain roughly the same or increase
only slightly for other UC and non-UC programs.

In caring for the new pool standard pool chemicals would be used, including 12.5% sodium hypochlorite
(liquid bleach) stored in a 1,000-gallon dual contained tank within a one-hour rated chemical room; 21%
muriatic acid stored in a 150-gallon dual contained tank within a one-hour rated room; and 600 pounds of
CO2 stored in a cryogenic tank inside a one-hour rated chemical room.

BUILDING DESCRIPTION

The building mass of the main building, fronting Bancroft Way, would be a rectangular box made of
precision-cut concrete masonry, layered with a perforated metal skin. Translucent glass would weave in
and out of the box creating a pattern and rhythm along Bancroft Way similar to the existing adjacent
commercial buildings. Within the team meeting/multi-purpose room, located in the west end of the
building mass, translucent glass walls on the north side of the room would provide natural light with
privacy for team training and meetings. Clear glass walls to the south and west would look out to the
pool deck and a patio area respectively.

The locker room building along the west edge of the project site would be mostly rectangular in shape
and made of precision-cut concrete masonry accented with punched translucent clerestory windows. The
interior walls and floors would be tiled. Translucent skylights in the roof would bring additional natural
light into the changing areas and bathrooms.

The pool storage structure, sited along the entire 52-meter length of the pool on the east edge of the
project site, would be a rectangular mass constructed of precision-cut concrete masonry. Storage would
be accessed through metal roll-up doors placed at regular intervals along the entire building facade.

The dive tower and springboard structures would be made of cast in place concrete. The dive tower
would also have a glass stairway enclosure to protect the divers from the weather as they ascend to the
various platforms. The dive tower stair core would be internally lighted and produce a soft glow.
Conceptual architectural renderings of the project are shown in figures 9 and 10.

UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                               25
D R A F T S U B S E QU E N T E N V I RO N M E N TA L I M PAC T R E P O RT




                                              Architectural Rendering ­ View Looking Southeast from
                                                             North Side of Bancroft Way
                                                                                                      Figure 9
U C B E R K E L EY C A L AQUAT I C S C E N T E R
D R A F T S U B S E QU E N T E N V I RO N M E N TA L I M PAC T R E P O RT




                                                            Architectural Rendering - Elevated View
                                                            Looking Northwest from Durant Avenue
                                                                                                      Figure 10
U C B E R K E L EY C A L AQUAT I C S C E N T E R
DRAFT SUBSEQUENT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT



LANDSCAPE DESCRIPTION

The sidewalk and trees along Bancroft Way adjacent to the existing parking lot would be removed and
replaced. The non-native melaleuca trees on the project site along the site's southern boundary would
also be removed. However, the existing London plane trees within the City right of way on Durant
Avenue would remain. Sidewalk planters in front of the new facility along Bancroft Way would be added
and would be planted with gray rush. The existing sidewalk and trees along the existing mid-block
passageway along the west edge of Tang Center would also be removed and replaced with new sidewalk
and planting pockets. Due to the non-native species and modest sizes of the existing trees on the site, they
do not meet the University's definition of "specimen trees." New 14-foot high light poles would replace
existing pathway lighting.

ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND "GREEN" FACILITY MEASURES

The project would employ energy efficiency strategies in all building disciplines in order to achieve a 20%
energy use reduction. Due to the size of the project, the Performance method would be used to show
compliance with Title 24. This method allows building trade-offs among the different building
components similar to the energy modeling required by LEED. The building envelope would have
insulation values that exceed the requirements of Table 143-A, Climate Zone 03. The envelope would also
employ high performance glazing. The interior and exterior lighting would use light fixtures and lamps
that would provide required light levels but stay under the maximum allowed lighting power densities
(LPD) listed in Table 146-F. The interior spaces would be served by high efficiency direct-expansion (DX)
cooling/heating rooftop systems. The plumbing fixtures would be low-flow fixtures with a project target
of a 40% water use reduction.

GRADING/EXCAVATION, DRAINAGE AND UTILITIES

Site preparation and grading would involve a net export of 7,118 cubic yards of material. The maximum
depth of excavation would be approximately 22 feet.

Stormwater runoff from the buildings and paved areas would be discharged into and filtered through
approximately 2,680 square feet of landscape area along the site's western edge prior to discharge to the
City Storm drain infrastructure in Bancroft Way. Stormwater runoff from the site would be reduced
compared to existing conditions, where virtually the entire site is impervious to infiltration.

Water service and wastewater service would be taken from existing East Bay Municipal Utility District
(EBMUD) and City of Berkeley infrastructure under Bancroft Way. Heating for the pool water would be
provided by an on-site gas boiler. Electricity would either be brought over from the Campus Park via a
line beneath and across Bancroft Way or from standard PG&E service from existing distribution points
adjacent to the site.

ACCESS AND PARKING

Pedestrian and bicycle access to the Aquatics Center would be provided from Bancroft Way through the
main entrance. Pedestrian access would also be available from Durant Avenue via a mid-block pathway.
The existing mid-block passageway west of the Tang Center, allowing for pedestrians to traverse the
block from Durant Avenue through the site to Bancroft Way, would be retained and enhanced. New light
pole standards would be added to the mid-block passageway to keep it safely lit at night. For security,
the facility would be enclosed with a minimum eight-foot high metal fence. Vehicles would enter the lot
from Durant Avenue and exit to Bancroft Way. A portion of the existing parking would be retained and
reconfigured to allow 49 angled parking spaces along the west edge of the project site. Along Bancroft

UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                           28
DRAFT SUBSEQUENT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT



Way, new trees and a new sidewalk would replace the existing trees and sidewalk. Planters and bicycle
parking would also be added along the front of the facility.

The pool operations require use of chlorine, acid and CO2 that would be delivered to the site
approximately every two weeks. Delivery would typically occur in the early mornings by a large truck
delivering chlorine and acid and a smaller truck (six-wheeler) delivering CO2. The trucks would park
within 70 feet of the chemical room doors and chemical company personnel would deliver the chemicals
through a hose.

ANTICIPATED CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE

Drilled piers would be used for the Dive Tower. Overall construction of the new Aquatics Center would
take 10 to 12 months.

MINOR LRDP TEXT AMENDMENT

The project as proposed includes a minor LRDP text amendment to the City Environs Framework text of
the UC Berkeley 2020 LRDP. For additional information see section 2.6, below.

2.6 PLANNING CONTEXT
2020 LRDP

The Cal Aquatics Center is proposed as partial implementation of the UC Berkeley 2020 Long Range
Development Plan (2020 LRDP).1 Adopted by the Regents in January 2005, the 2020 LRDP describes both
the scope and nature of development proposed to meet the goals of the University through academic year
2020-2021, including projections of growth in both campus headcount and campus space during this
timeframe. The 2020 LRDP also prescribes a comprehensive set of principles, policies, and guidelines to
inform the location, scale and design of individual capital projects. These include the Location
Guidelines, which establish priorities for the location of campus functions, both within the historic
Campus Park and outside of it, including the Adjacent Blocks land use zones identified in the LRDP. The
project site is located within the Adjacent Blocks West land use zone. LRDP policies also guide the design
of projects in the City Environs; a minor amendment to these policies (see Appendix A) is proposed as
part of the Cal Aquatics Center project, in order to align the proposed project with a revised 2020 LRDP.

The Project conforms to the Location Guidelines, which prioritize locations in the LRDP's land use zones.
The Location Guidelines identify Student Services, including "Fitness, recreation, intercollegiate
athletics," as priority uses within the adjacent blocks. The LRDP also specifically calls out UC -owned
surface parking lots in the areas surrounding the Campus Park as candidate sites for realizing
implementation of the overall LRDP land use and facilities program.

2020 LRDP EIR

The 2020 LRDP Environmental Impact Report (SCH #2003082131), certified by The Regents of the
University of California in January 2005, provides a comprehensive program-level analysis of the 2020
LRDP, and its potential impacts on the environment, in accordance with Section 15168 of the California
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines. The 2020 LRDP EIR prescribes Continuing Best Practices
and Mitigation Measures for all projects implemented under the 2020 LRDP, as described in
ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW, below.




UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                         29
DRAFT SUBSEQUENT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT



UC DESIGN REVIEW PROCESS

The project was reviewed by the UC Berkeley Design Review Committee at its September 13, 2012
meeting. The committee provided the following comments:

           Visually open the facility more to the street, rather than walling / fencing off. Aquatics facilities that are
           visually permeable to passersby are very successful / popular at other campuses; study USC and Stanford
           for successful / recent examples;
           A more visually open facility is particularly important along this stretch of Bancroft Way;
           Simplify the design elements of the team building; it is a small, sculptural structure, and does not need
           several finishes;
           Consider shifting the mechanical structure away from the street frontage, possibly placing it under
           permanent seating; fans / mechanical noise along street not desirable; this would also provide more
           opportunity for a pool side plaza at the northeast corner, along Bancroft.
           Are enough seats provided for spectators, and is the circulation to the seating clearly thought through?
           Symmetrically aligning the facility with the obelisks at the Track Stadium across the street is a good design
           move;
           Provide overhead / sun shelter for spectators; very important at other aquatics venues in California
           Although the Committee provided comments on this project, members continue to feel that a single level
           aquatics facility is not the highest / best use for this large, urban, and well-situated campus-owned site.

UC REGENTS REVIEW

The proposed project is funded by a pledge from a group of donors interested in supporting the Cal
aquatics program. Because the project was not anticipated in the University's C apital Financial Plan and
the overall cost of the project exceeds $10 million, review of the project by the Regents is required.

CITY OF BERKELEY PLANNING COMMISSION AND DESIGN REVIEW COMMITTEE

The Continuing Best Practices prescribed in the 2020 LRDP EIR include the following requirements for all
projects located in the `City Environs', which includes the areas within Berkeley lying outside the
`Campus Park' and `Hill Campus': 1

      UC Berkeley would make informational presentations on all major projects in the City Environs in
      Berkeley to the Berkeley Planning Commission and, if relevant, the Berkeley Landmarks Preservation
      Commission for comment prior to schematic design review by the UC Berkeley Design Review
      Committee ... Whenever a project in the City Envi rons is under consideration by the UC Berkeley
      DRC, a staff representative designated by the city in which it is located would be invited to attend
      and comment on the project. (Continuing Best Practice AES-1-e)

The proposed project is located in the City Environs, specifically within the Adjacent Blocks West land
use zone of the LRDP, in the City of Berkeley. The project was reviewed by the City of Berkeley Planning
Commission at its February 20, 2013 meeting; while expressing concern about cumulative parking loss,
desire that the new facility should serve a broader section of the community, and inconsistency of the
proposed development with the Downtown Area Plan (see Land Use section below), the commission
largely supported the project. The project was reviewed by the City of Berkeley Design Review
Committee at its February 21, 2013 meeting; the committee largely supported the project.




1   In the 2020 LRDP, the "Campus Park" refers to the historic 180 acre central campus defined by H earst, Oxford/Fulton, Bancroft,
    and Piedmont. The "Hill Campus" refers to the roughly 800 acres lying east of the Campus Park extending into the eastbay hills.

UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                                                  30
DRAFT SUBSEQUENT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT



SOUTHSIDE PLAN

Although owned by and adjacent to the university, and within the scope of the LRDP, the project site is
within the City of Berkeley's Southside Plan area. The City of Berkeley City Council adopted the
Southside Plan, which includes the area immediately adjacent to campus south of Bancroft Way, at their
public hearing of September 27, 2011. Per a 1997 MOU, the campus has acknowledged the Southside Plan
as the guide for campus developments in the Southside area. As stated in the City Environs Framework
of the LRDP, "the university should as a general rule use the Southside Plan as its guide for the location
and design of future projects in the Southside, as envisioned in the Memorandum of Understanding."
The LRDP's City Environs Framework includes the following two policies related to the relationship
between university projects in the City Environs and the applicable city land use plans and regulations:

   Use municipal plans and policies to inform the design of future capital projects in the City Environs.

   Use the Southside Plan as a guide to the design of future capital projects in the Southside.

The LRDP also identifies the Southside as "first and foremost, a place where people live. While the
Southside Plan recognizes there are many areas within the Southside suitable for new non-residential
projects, it also recognizes such projects must be planned to enhance the quality of life for all
Southside residents."

The LRDP calls on the university to "make informational presentations of all major projects within the
Southside Plan area to the City of Berkeley Planning Commission and, if relevant, the City of Berkeley
Landmarks Commission for comment prior to schematic design review by the UC Berkeley Design
Review Committee." The outcomes of this process for the proposed Cal Aquatics Center are
summarized under the heading City of Berkeley Planning Commission and Design Review
Committee, above.

The project site is within the Southside Plan's Residential Mixed Use Subarea, which applies "to areas
containing a mix of University, office, and institutional uses as well as multi-family housing and
small-scale neighborhood serving commercial uses." The broad intentions stated in the Southside Plan
for the Residential Mixed Use Subarea are "allowing a wider variety of land uses than is allowed in
other subareas in order to maintain the existing diversity of land uses; meeting the future needs of the
many different users and property owners in this subarea; and reducing pressure to locate non-
residential or non-retail uses in the other four subareas." The Southside Plan recommends a broad
variety of land uses for this subarea, including housing, university academic facilities and offices,
religious facilities, schools, social institutions, parking, cultural facilities, hotel uses, and neighborhood
serving retail uses. Mixed-use developments that include housing are identified as a preferred use.
The Southside Plan also notes that the Residential Mixed Use Subarea contains many of the sites in the
plan area with development potential, specifically including surface parking lots. Specific relevant
policies in the Southside Plan are discussed in the SEIR analysis under Land Use and Planning.




UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                                  31
DRAFT SUBSEQUENT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT




                           3. RELATIONSHIP TO 2020 LRDP

BACKGROUND
UC Berkeley's Long Range Development Plan (2020 LRDP) was approved by The Regents in January
2005, and describes both the scope and nature of development proposed to meet the goals of the
University through academic year 2020-2021, as well as land use principles and policies to guide the
location, scale and design of individual capital projects.

The 2020 LRDP Environmental Impact Report provides a comprehensive program-level analysis of the
2020 LRDP, and its potential impacts on the environment, in accordance with Section 15168 of the
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines. Under CEQA, subsequent projects should be
examined in light of the program-level EIR to determine whether subsequent project-specific
environmental documents must be prepared. Subsequent documents may rely on the program-level EIR
for information on setting and regulatory framework, for analysis of general growth-related and
cumulative impacts, and for alternatives to the 2020 LRDP. 2020 LRDP mitigation measures and best
practices that reduce potential impacts of the project would be implemented as part of the project, and
would be identified in the project-specific review. Additional mitigation measures may also be identified.

2020 LRDP EIR mitigation measures and continuing best practices to be incorporated into the Cal
Aquatics Center project are identified in each topical section of the ENVIRONMENTAL EVALUATION in this
document. The 2020 LRDP and the 2020 LRDP Environmental Impact Report (SCH #2003082131) are
available on line at lrdp.berkeley.edu; copies are available for review at the offices of Physical and
Environmental Planning/Capital Projects/Facilities Services, Room 1, A&E Building on the Berkeley
campus, and are available for review at the Berkeley Public Library and online.

PARAMETERS OF THE 2020 LRDP
The proposed site for the Project is governed by the 2020 LRDP. The project would be located in the area
designated in the 2020 LRDP as the Adjacent Blocks West land use zone of the Campus Environs. The
2020 LRDP anticipated up to 1 million net new gross square feet of academic and support space would be
developed on the Campus Park over the lifetime of the 2020 LRDP, and over 2.2 million net new gross
square feet within the entire area governed by the 2020 LRDP (2020 LRDP EIR Vol 3a, 3.1-14). These
growth envelopes were analyzed in the 2020 LRDP EIR. As shown in Table 6 below, the Project would
not exceed development levels anticipated in the 2020 LRDP.

The 2020 LRDP also projected increases in campus headcount, broken down by faculty, academic staff
and visitors (including researchers and postdocs), and nonacademic staff. Table 7 shows how the Project
aligns with the net new headcounts in each category anticipated in the 2020 LRDP, and analyzed in the
2020 LRDP EIR (2020 LRDP EIR Vol 3a, 3.1-14).

The 2020 LRDP includes Location Guidelines for the various campus functions housed on and around the
campus. The Project conforms to the Guidelines, as described in Section 2.6, above.




UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                         32
DRAFT SUBSEQUENT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT




                                                   Table 6:
                              Comparison of Project to 2020 LRDP Program: Space
                                                                                                        % total LRDP
                                                                                 # Gross Square Feet
                                                                                                            GSF
                                                                             By project       totals
       Max New Academic and Support GSF in 2020 LRDP                                        2,200,000       100%
       Max new Academic and Support GSF due to other projects                                722,829         33%
       Max new Academic and Support GSF due to proposed CAC                      10,860                    0.49%
       Net new Academic and Support GSF remaining                                           1,466,311      66.51%
       Source: UC Berkeley Capital Projects/Facilities Services, February 2013


                                               Table 7:
               Comparison of Project to 2020 LRDP Program Adjacent Blocks West: Space
                                                                                                        % total Area
                                                                            # Gross Square Feet
                                                                                                           GSF
                                                                          By project           #
         Max New Academic and Support GSF in 2020 LRDP                                     800,000         100%
         Max new Academic and Support GSF due to other
                                                                                           150,200         18%
         projects
         Max new Academic and Support GSF due to
                                                                            10,860                        0.13%
         proposed CAC
         Net new Academic and Support GSF remaining                                        638,940        81.87%
         Source: UC Berkeley Capital Projects/Facilities Services, February 2013


The proposed newly built space would add 10,860 of gross square footage to accommodate the existing
student population and is not associated with an increase in student or staff FTE for the campus. Rather,
the proposed new facility would provide needed additional space for existing UC athletes and other
students.

OBJECTIVES OF THE 2020 LRDP
The purpose of the 2020 LRDP is to set forth a framework for land use and capital investment undertaken
in support of the campus' academic principles. The 2020 LRDP is driven by the following broad objectives:
those which are directly relevant to the Project are shown in bold type (2020 LRDP EIR Vol 3a, 3.1-10).

          Provide the space, technology and infrastructure we require to excel in education, research,
          and public service.
          Provide the housing, access, and services we require to support a vital intellectual
          community and promote full engagement in campus life.
          Stabilize enrollment at a level commensurate with our academic standards and our land and capital
          resources.
          Build a campus that fosters intellectual synergy and collaborative endeavors both within and across
          disciplines.
          Plan every new project to represent the optimal investment of land and capital in the future
          of the campus.
          Plan every new project as a model of resource conservation and environmental stewardship.
          Maintain and enhance the image and experience of the campus, and preserve our historic
          legacy of landscape and architecture.


UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                                        33
DRAFT SUBSEQUENT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT



        Plan every new project to respect and enhance the character, livability, and cultural vitality
        of our city environs.
        Maintain the Hill Campus as a natural resource for research, education and recreation, with focused
        development on suitable sites.

The following discussion briefly describes the project's fulfillment of the identified LRDP o bjectives.

        Provide the space, technology and infrastructure we require to excel in education, research, and public
        service.
        Provide the housing, access, and services we require to support a vital intellectual community and
        promote full engagement in campus life.

UC Berkeley is a large and diverse institution; one aspect of the proposed project, namely the reduction of
parking supply, would not be uniformly construed as supporting access and services to the campus
community. However, the project would provide much-needed additional space for the Cal aquatics
program. As discussed above in Section 2.3, Need for the Project, UC Berkeley is one of only three NCAA
aquatics programs in the country that provides participation opportunities to athletes in men's
swimming and diving, women's swimming and diving, men's water polo, and women's water polo.
Despite the overwhelming success of these programs, they are constrained by a lack of capacity for both
training and competition, both in terms of times available for practice and amount of water space. The
aquatics programs are further hampered by inadequate and obsolete land-side training facilities. The
shortage of water space is a significant issue campus-wide for Intercollegiate Athletics and other users,
including recreational swimmers, physical education students, and community partners. Cal athletics
enrich the student experience at Berkeley and provide a balance to Berkele y's rigorous academic
demands, thus supporting the overarching goals of excellence in education, research, and public service
as well as supporting full engagement in campus life.

Campus leaders are fully informed about parking reductions. The Cal Aquatics Center supports a vital
intellectual community by reducing scheduling constraints for student athletes, and supports excellence
in education and athletics.

        Plan every new project to represent the optimal investment of land and capital in the future of the campus.

The project site is a suitable location for the proposed aquatics center due to its location adjacent to the
university's existing sports complexes. In addition, both the LRDP and Southside Plan identify existing
surface parking lots as opportunity sites for new development. As discussed above, the new aquatics
facility would be an important investment in the future of the university's athletic programs and campus
life. Nevertheless, the proposed use for the project site may be seen as less than optimal from a larger
planning perspective, as the site is also highly suitable for other uses. Higher density and a larger scale of
development, as well as student housing and mixed use projects, are considered desirable in the Adjacent
Blocks West and in the City of Berkeley's Southside Plan areas by the LRDP and the Southside Plan,
respectively; therefore, revisions to the 2020 LRDP are proposed to make an exception for the Cal
Aquatics Center. Existing plans encourage density, mixed use and housing in these areas to further a
number of planning goals including improving and activating the pedestrian environment between
downtown and the campus park area in general and on Bancroft Way in particular, and reducing vehicle
miles travelled by locating housing in proximity to campus and by developing two or more land uses on
a project site. As discussed under Land Use in the environmental analysis below, this is an important
land use consideration for the decision makers, but does not rise to the level of a direct policy
inconsistency or a significant impact on the environment. The University recognizes that because of other


UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                                       34
DRAFT SUBSEQUENT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT



considerations, such as availability of funding for new development, the theoretical "optimal" use may
not always be achievable.

        Plan every new project as a model of resource conservation and environmental stewardship.

The proposed aquatics center would employ state-of-the art energy-efficient equipment for pool heating
and facility lighting. As discussed in the Environmental Analysis in this SEIR, the project would improve
the quality and reduce the quantity of stormwater runoff, and would result in less-than-significant
impacts in the issue areas studied related to environmental resource conservation and stewardship. The
project involves replacement of a surface parking lot with an athletic facility; the site does not currently
support environmental resources, and the existing ornamental trees on the site would be replaced by new
landscape trees.

        Maintain and enhance the image and experience of the campus, and preserve our historic legacy of landscape
        and architecture.

The proposed aquatics center would replace a surface parking lot with an active athletic use, which
would enhance the image and experience of the project site and surroundings. Use of the site as a student
support facility that also supports community activities such as swimming camps, rather than a surface
parking lot, would enhance the image and experience of the site with a use linked to ongoing sports and
academic uses at the adjacent campus park. The project has been reviewed by the UC Berkeley and City
of Berkeley design review committees to ensure that the architecture and landscaping maintain and
enhance the image and experience of the campus.

There are currently no historic resources (or buildings of any kind) on the site. The existing landscaping
does not include specimen or heritage trees or other unique or historic vegetation or hardscape.

        Plan every new project to respect and enhance the character, livability, and cultural vitality of our city environs.

The project site is within the city environs. It is bordered on three sides by UC facilities (athletics, offices
and student services) and on one site (across Durant Avenue) by non-UC residential buildings. The
project has been designed to complement and not overwhelm the adjacent larger Tang Center and
similar-scaled Office of Public Affairs building. Attention to details such as lighting ­ through using
fixtures that minimize light and glare spillover ­ as well as scale and landscaping, the project is intended
to respect both the adjacent university facilities and the residential area across Durant Avenue from the
site. The project would enhance the vitality by replacing a surface parking lot with an active use that
supports student life and athletic programs but also provides an additional venue for camps that serve
the community. As specified in the LRDP, the university is encouraged to be responsive to the interface of
campus and city. For this reason, informational presentations at the schematic design stage were made to
the City of Berkeley's Planning Commission and Design Review Committee, as discussed above.

2020 LRDP CLIMATE CHANGE AMENDMENT
In June 2009, UC Berkeley published a proposed amendment to the 2020 LRDP, Sustainable Campus
chapter, to reflect existing campus commitments to address climate change. The minor LRDP text
amendment reflects campus policy, including: "Design all aspects of new projects to achieve short term
and long term climate change emission targets established in the campus climate action plan." UC
Berkeley targets achievement of 1990 greenhouse gas emission levels by 2014, six years ahead of state
mandated targets, and climate neutrality as soon as possible but not later than 2050. The amendment



UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                                            35
DRAFT SUBSEQUENT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT



links the 2020 LRDP and the campus climate action plan, which is updated annually: see
http://sustainability.berkeley.edu/calcap.

The amendment to the UC Berkeley 2020 LRDP was approved by the University based on Addendum #5
to the UC Berkeley 2020 LRDP EIR. The Addendum and the LRDP Amendment were approved in July
2009 by the University, following review and consideration of comments from community members.
Addendum #5 described existing climate change conditions and evaluates the potential for development
under the UC Berkeley 2020 LRDP, with minor amendments to reflect current campus policy, to affect
climate change. Addendum #5 provided a summary of the current regulatory framework applicable to
climate change, discussing the applicable federal, state, regional, and local agencies that regulate,
monitor, and control GHG emissions. Addendum #5 concluded that the proposed amendment to the 2020
LRDP Sustainable Campus chapter did not trigger a need to prepare a subsequent EIR to the 2020 LRDP
EIR. The Project complies with University policies on sustainable practices, as further described below.
See http://tinyurl.com/UCBClimate for documents and information. The Cal Aquatics Center project
would implement the 2020 LRDP, as amended, which includes compliance with emission targets
established in the Campus Climate Action Plan and therefore would not conflict with any applicable plan
adopted for the purpose of reducing the emissions of greenhouse gases.




UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                       36
DRAFT SUBSEQUENT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT




                     4. ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION

The University has prepared this Draft Subsequent Environmental Impact Report (SEIR) to evaluate the
Project in accordance with CEQA (Public Resources Code Section 21000 et seq.), and the University of
California Procedures for Implementation of CEQA. Based on the SEIR the campus has determined that
the Project, which includes a minor text amendment to the LRDP to address siting of the Cal Aquatics
Center, is substantially consistent with the UC Berkeley 2020 LRDP EIR which was certified by The
Regents in 2005, and includes later addendum and amendments, but that the Project may cause new
impacts not considered in the LRDP EIR in the areas of Land Use and Utilities. No other new
information of substantial importance, which was not known at the time the LRDP EIR was certified, has
become available; and thus the University has prepared a Subsequent EIR to the LRDP EIR. The Project
Description, above, and the following impact analysis, including all Appendices, for the Project as
currently proposed, serves as the Subsequent EIR (SEIR).

On the basis of the initial evaluation that follows, UC Berkeley finds that:

          The proposed project COULD NOT have a significant effect on the environment, and
          a NEGATIVE DECLARATION will be prepared.
          Although the proposed project could have a significant effect on the environment,
          there will not be a significant effect in this case because revisions in the project have
          been made by or agreed to by the project proponent. A MITIGATED NEGATIVE
          DECLARATION will be prepared.
          The proposed project MAY have a significant effect on the environment and additions or
          changes would be necessary to make the previous EIR adequately apply to the project in
X
          the changed situation. In response, this document constitutes a SUBSEQUENT
          ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT.
          The proposed project MAY have a `potentially significant impact' or `potentially
          significant impact unless mitigated' impact on the environment, but at least one
          effect 1) has been adequately analyzed in an earlier document pursuant to applicable
          standards and 2) has been addressed by mitigation measures based on the earlier
          analysis as described on attached sheets. An ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT
          is required, but it must analyze only the effects that remain to be addressed.
          Although the proposed project could have a significant effect on the environment,
          because all potentially significant effects (a) have been analyzed adequately in an
          earlier EIR or NEGATIVE DECLARATION pursuant to applicable standards; and
          (b) have been avoided or mitigated pursuant to that earlier EIR or NEGATIVE
          DECLARATION, including revisions or mitigation measures that are imposed upon
          the proposed project, and (c) the project does not involve new information of
          substantial importance that shows mitigation measures or alternatives which are
          considerably different from those analyzed in the 2020 LRDP EIR or which were
          previously considered infeasible, are now feasible; therefore, the 2020 LRDP EIR and
          the documentation enclosed presents sufficient environmental analysis for the
          project.




____________________________________________________________________________


UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                       37
DRAFT SUBSEQUENT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT




                        5. ENVIRONMENTAL EVALUATION

All answers take account of the whole action involved, including beneficial, direct, indirect, construction-
related, operational, and cumulative impacts. A list of references used in the preparation of this Initial
Study is included at the end of this document.

Appendix G of the CEQA Guidelines provides only a suggested format to use when preparing an Initial
Study. UC Berkeley has adopted a slightly different format with respect to the response column headings
(refer to the definitions provided below), while still addressing the Appendix G checklist questions that
are relevant to each environmental issue. In the checklist that follows:

2020 LRDP Analysis Sufficient applies to those issues where the environmental review completed for the
2020 LRDP is determined to be sufficient to address impacts of the Project, and where additional CEQA
review would be repetitive. Discussion under each issue area marked `2020 LRDP Analysis Sufficient'
includes specific reference to the 2020 LRDP EIR setting, pertinent impact analysis, and continuing best
practices and mitigation measures incorporated into the Project to address the potential environmental
impact in question.

Further Analysis Required is checked for those potential environmental impacts, which may or may not
be significant, for which the environmental review completed for the 2020 LRDP does not in itself
provide an adequate basis for a determination of no significant impact, and for which further analysis of
the Project is required; when checked, the analysis is presented in the text.




UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                           38
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT / CHECKLIST




AESTHETICS
SETTING
The 2020 LRDP and its EIR, as well as the City of Berkeley's Southside Plan, provide a framework for
considering the visual effects of the proposed Cal Aquatics Center. The visual setting of the campus and
its environs are described in the 2020 LRDP EIR (Section 4.1). According to the 2020 LRDP, the project site
is located within the City Environs. The project site is also located within the City of Berkeley Southside
Plan. The University owns roughly 45% of the land in the Southside, including the project site, and
students comprise over 80% of Southside residents. The following text summarizes context information
for aesthetics relevant to the project.

VISUAL CHARACTER
The heart of UC Berkeley (the Campus Park) is often described as a 'university in a park' and it is this
park-like character that unifies its disparate buildings and diverse academic functions, and imparts a
unique and memorable identity. UC Berkeley was established on an expansive landscape of rolling hills,
framed by the north and south forks of Strawberry Creek.

The project site is located adjacent to the Campus Park, within the area designated in the 2020 LRDP as
the "City Environs," defined to include the Adjacent Blocks, the Southside, Other Berkeley Sites, and the
Housing Zone in its entirety: in other words, the entire scope of the 2020 LRDP except for the Campus
Park and Hill Campus. The areas within the City Environs are similar in consisting mostly of city blocks
served by city streets, and include University-owned properties interspersed with non-university
properties.

Similar to the Campus Park, the City Environs have continued to evolve over the years, and in some areas
single-family homes have given way to multifamily buildings. Because this development has occurred
project by project, many residential districts have an eclectic mix of older one-and two-family homes and
newer, larger apartment buildings. According to the 2020 LRDP, the project site is located within the
Adjacent Blocks West district, which is defined by Oxford, Virginia, Walnut, Hearst, Shattuck, Durant,
Ellsworth, and the Campus Park. Major campus facilities on these blocks include the Tang Health Center,
the University Printing Plant, University Hall, 2195 Hearst, and the plant research facilities of the Oxford
Tract. The City Environs ­ the Adjacent Blocks, the Southside, and the Housing Zone ­ consist of a grid of
city blocks developed with a dense but almost entirely low-rise mix of residential, commercial, and
institutional buildings. One- to four-story buildings with street level shops and services as well as office
or residences on upper floors predominate along arterials, while interior blocks tend to be exclusively
residential. According to the 2020 LRDP, development in the Adjacent Blocks West area offers enormous
potential to enhance the synergy of campus and city.

As shown in Figure 2, the project site is located across Bancroft Way from the southwest corner of the
campus, just east of the intersection of Fulton Street and Bancroft Way. The site is bordered on the south
by Durant Avenue and older, modest-sized multi-family residential buildings across Durant Avenue; on
the west by the UC Public Affairs building; on the north by Bancroft Way and the sports precinct within
the Campus Park across Bancroft Way; and on the east by the Tang Center.

The project site, referred to on campus maps as the Bancroft/Fulton Parking Lot, is a rectangular, paved
surface parking lot developed with approximately 230 parking spaces and a small parking kiosk. The site
is generally flat, sloping gently to the southwest. Light standards of approximately 25 feet in height, each
with two fixtures, provide night lighting throughout the night, along with street lights on Bancroft Way
and Durant Avenue. Refer to Figures 3a through 3d for a visual representation of existing conditions on
and adjacent to the project site.

UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                           39
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT / CHECKLIST




SCENIC VISTAS, HISTORIC RESOURCES AND LANDSCAPE
The project site is generally flat and almost entirely paved, and is used exclusively for surface parking.
Scenic vistas in the vicinity of the project site include views of the East Bay hills to the northeast and of
the San Francisco Bay and the Marin Headlands looking west along Bancroft Way. However, views of
these scenic resources are not currently visible from or through the project site, with the exception of
glimpses of the hills from western portions of the existing parking lot. The project site is visible from
Bancroft Way, Durant Avenue, and Fulton Street. None of these roadways have been officially designated
by the UC or City of Berkeley as scenic highways2. There are no historic resources (or buildings of any
kind) on the project site. The wall at the Edwards Stadium, located north of the project site across
Bancroft Way, was placed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1993; it is visible from the site.
The perimeter of the site is lined with non-native landscape and street trees. London plane trees line the
Bancroft Way sidewalk frontage, in addition to two pittosporum trees, at the northeast corner of the site.
Several eucalyptus and one live oak tree grow just outside of the western property boundary, adjacent to
the UC Public Affairs building. The existing mid-block pedestrian passageway along the eastern
boundary of the site is lined with ornamental pear trees. Melaleuca trees line the Durant Avenue
sidewalk frontage. The parkway along Durant Avenue is also planted with London planes. Low hedges
separate the parking lot from the Bancroft Way and Durant Avenue sidewalks.

REGULATORY SETTING

2020 LRDP & 2020 LRDP EIR
Review of individual projects under the 2020 LRDP would affect the visual quality of the campus and its
City Environs by guiding the location, scale, form and design of new University projects. The 2020 LRDP
includes a number of policies and procedures for individual project review to support the Objectives of
the 2020 LRDP. One of the 2020 LRDP Objectives and one of the Policies are particularly relevant to
aesthetics:

    Plan every new project to respect and enhance the character, livability, and cultural vitality of our
    city environs (Objective).
    Use the Southside Plan as a guide to the design of future capital projects in the Southside (Policy).

As specified in the LRDP, the University is encouraged to be responsive to the interface of campus and
city. For this reason, informational presentations at the schematic design stage were made to the City of
Berkeley's Planning Commission and Design Review Committee.

The project was reviewed by the UC Berkeley Design Review Committee at its September 13, 2012
meeting. The committee provided the following comments:

        Visually open the facility more to the street, rather than walling / fencing off. Aquatics facilities that are
        visually permeable to passersby are very successful / popular at other campuses; study USC and Stanford
        for successful / recent examples;
        A more visually open facility is particularly important along this stretch of Bancroft Way;
        Simplify the design elements of the team building; it is a small, sculptural structure, and does not need
        several finishes;
        Consider shifting the mechanical structure away from the street frontage, possibly placing it under
        permanent seating; fans / mechanical noise along street not desirable; this would also provide more
        opportunity for a pool side plaza at the northeast corner, along Bancroft.
        Are enough seats provided for spectators, and is the circulation to the seating clearly thought through?


UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                                          40
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT / CHECKLIST



        Symmetrically aligning the facility with the obelisks at the Track Stadium across the street is a good design
        move;
        Provide overhead / sun shelter for spectators; very important at other aquatics venues in California
        Although the Committee provided comments on this project, members continue to feel that a single level
        aquatics facility is not the highest / best use for this large, urban, and well-situated campus-owned site.

Although the University is constitutionally exempt from local regulations when using its property in
furtherance of its educational purposes, it is University policy to evaluate proposed projects for
consistency with local plans and policies. According to the 2020 LRDP EIR, projects on the Adjacent
Blocks that lie within the area of the Southside Plan should use the Southside Plan, described below, as a
guide.

SOUTHSIDE PLAN
In 1997 the City of Berkeley and UC Berkeley signed a Memorandum of Understanding, which states `the
city and the University will jointly participate in the preparation of a Southside Plan...the campus will
acknowledge the Plan as the guide for campus developments in the Southside area.'

The City and University have since collaborated on a draft Southside Plan, which was adopted by the
Berkeley City Council on September 27, 2011. The University would, as a general rule, use the design
guidelines and standards prescribed in the Southside Plan as its guide for the location and design of
projects implemented under the 2020 LRDP within the geographic area of the Southside Plan. The project
site is located in the Residential Mixed Use Subarea (R-SMU) of the Southside. The R-SMU area is
characterized by many distinctive and architecturally significant buildings, such as the Tang Center and
the Berkeley Art Museum/Pacific Film Archive, several churches located along Bancroft Way and Dana
Street, social/service institutions such as the Berkeley City Club and the YWCA, several small office
buildings, some apartment buildings and large houses, and numerous sites used as parking lots. 3

The Southside plan contains design guidelines that are intended to ensure that new development respects
the existing architectural context of the R-SMU area, while complimenting the scale and character of the
remaining portions of Southside. The proposed project's consistency with the 2020 LRDP and the City of
Berkeley Southside Plan is discussed below in Initial Study checklist item number four.

SPECIMEN TREES
UC Berkeley has an existing campus program that it uses to guide the evaluation and designation of
specimen trees. Other plants (shrubs, groundcover or grasses) which meet the criteria may also be
considered as specimen flora. The Campus Landscape Architect makes the determination of status, using
the following criteria: to be considered a specimen, the tree or plant should be in good health and not
pose a hazard to pedestrian and automotive traffic, existing buildings or utilities, and should have one or
more of the following qualities:

    Aesthetics: The tree is an integral part of an architectural theme, or plays an important role in
    framing or screening a building or other feature.
    Historical: The tree was planted as part of a memorial planting or is a particularly outstanding
    example of the original botanical garden plantings. The tree is identified by landmark status, named
    with a plaque, is identified as a contributing feature in an historic structures report and/or identified
    in the LHP as a character defining feature of the landscape.
    Educational: The tree represents a special taxonomic or morphological feature, is unique to the
    Campus or the San Francisco Bay Area, is a particularly outstanding example of California flora, is
    part of an experimental planting with a special landscape or agricultural value, or is regularly used
    by campus instructors as an example of the species.

UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                                     41
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT / CHECKLIST



    Strawberry Creek: Removal of the tree would significantly increase erosion potential, affect the
    natural species diversity of the Creek as a riparian corridor.
    Natural Area: The tree is located within the Wickson, Grinnell or Goodspeed Natural Areas. 4

Determination of specimen status may extend to a group of trees which has importance as a group, even
though the individual trees may not in themselves meet the specimen criteria.

Under this program, the retention of existing specimen trees, shrubs and grass areas is a priority in the
final design of proposed projects. Projects are reviewed with the UC Berkeley Design Review Committee
to minimize impacts to specimens. Site preparation is conducted to minimize removal and/or damage of
specimen trees or plant species to the fullest feasible extent. Sensitive construction practices are used to
avoid possible damage to trees to be retained, including construction setbacks, installation of temporary
construction fencing around individual trees to be preserved, and monitoring by a certified arborist of
any required limb removal or disturbance within the dripline of trees to be retained. Grading, vegetation
removal and replacement plans, where necessary, are coordinated with the Campus Landscape Architect.
Specimens impacted are replaced by successful transplanting, or must be replaced by new planting at a
ratio of 3 to 1 in closest available sizes. Disturbed landscaped areas are restored to the full feasible extent. 5

MITIGATION MEASURES & CONTINUING BEST PRACTICES
Design and construction of the proposed project would be reviewed by the UC Berkeley Design Review
Committee, based on project specific design guidelines informed by the provisions of the City of Berkeley
General Plan, the Southside Plan, and the 2020 LRDP. The University would make informational
presentations on the proposed project to the City Planning Commission and, if relevant, the City
Landmarks Commission for comment prior to schematic design review by the UC Berkeley Design
Review Committee.

The 2020 LRDP EIR includes mitigation measures and continuing best practices developed to reduce the
effect of the implementation of the 2020 LRDP upon aesthetics. Where applicable, the Project would
incorporate the following mitigation measures and/or continuing best practices:

    2020 LRDP Continuing Best Practice AES-1-b: Major new campus projects would continue to be
    reviewed at each stage of design by the UC Berkeley Design Review Committee. The provisions of
    the 2020 LRDP, as well as project specific design guidelines prepared for each such project, would
    guide these reviews.

    2020 LRDP Continuing Best Practice AES-1-e: UC Berkeley would make informational presentations
    of all major projects in the City Environs in Berkeley to the Berkeley Planning Commission and, if
    relevant, the Berkeley Landmarks Commission for comment prior to schematic design review by the
    UC Berkeley Design Review Committee. Major projects in the City Environs in Oakland would
    similarly be presented to the Oakland Planning Commission and, if relevant, to the Oakland
    Landmarks Preservation Advisory Board.

    2020 LRDP Continuing Best Practice AES-1-h: Assuming no further substantive changes are made
    by the city prior to adoption, the University would as a general rule use the design guidelines and
    standards prescribed in the Southside Plan as its guide for the location and design of University
    projects implemented under the 2020 LRDP within the area of the Southside Plan.

    2020 LRDP Mitigation Measure AES-3-a: Lighting for new development projects would be designed
    to include shields and cut-offs that minimize light spillage onto unintended surfaces and minimize


UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                                 42
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT / CHECKLIST



    atmospheric light pollution. The only exception to this principle would be in those areas where such
    features would be incompatible with the visual and/or historic character of the area.

    2020 LRDP Mitigation Measure AES-3-b: As part of the design review procedures described in the
    above Continuing Best Practices, light and glare would be given specific consideration, and measures
    incorporated into the project design to minimize both. In general, exterior surfaces would not be
    reflective: architectural screens and shading devices are preferable to reflective glass.

AESTHETICS

Would the Cal Aquatics Center project:
                                                                                   Further   2020 LRDP EIR
                                                                                  Analysis       Analysis
                                                                                  Required      Sufficient
1. Have a substantial adverse effect on a scenic vista?                                             

The 2020 LRDP identified preservation areas, into which new buildings should not intrude, in order to
protect scenic vistas. As shown in Figure 7 of the 2020 LRDP, all preservation areas are located within the
Campus Park and not within the Southside area. Therefore, no aspect of the project is located within a
preservation area. The scope of new construction and improvements would generally preserve existing
views of the campus from the site; the historic Edwards wall would remain visible from the Bancroft Way
frontage and from the proposed entryway, and from portions of the Aquatics Center's interior.

As discussed in the 2020 LRDP EIR, the City Environs are mostly flat and densely urbanized, and since
future University projects in the City Environs are expected to be of the same general scale as private
projects on similar sites, no significant impacts on scenic vistas were anticipated. The Southside Plan
identifies views of the San Francisco Bay and the Marin Headlands as significant views along Bancroft
Way. The proposed project would be a 1-story structure, would be of similar height as the existing
University-owned building west of the site, and would be smaller than the adjacent Tang Center. As
such, the proposed project would not block scenic views of the San Francisco Bay or the Marin
Headlands, which are only visible around the site by looking directly down Bancroft Way. Furthermore,
the 2020 LRDP envisioned buildout of the project site (see, for example, the potential project as proposed
for the site at illustrative concept Figure 3B in the LRDP, p. 3.1-21 of Vol 1 of the 2020 LRDP EIR) and the
proposed Aquatics Center would not be larger in scale than the scale of development reasonably
assumed in the 2020 LRDP EIR. Therefore, the Project would not introduce any impacts not considered in
the LRDP EIR and would not have a substantial adverse effect on a scenic vista. Impacts would be less
than significant.

                                                                                   Further   2020 LRDP EIR
                                                                                  Analysis       Analysis
                                                                                  Required      Sufficient
2. Substantially damage scenic resources, including, but not limited to, trees,                     
rock outcroppings, and historic buildings within a state scenic highway?

The project site is currently developed with a surface parking lot and does not include rock outcroppings
or historic buildings. The Campus Landscape Architect has reviewed the existing trees on site and has
determined that due to the non-native species and modest size of the existing trees on the site, they do
not meet the University's definition of "specimen trees." 6 The existing site landscaping does not include
specimen or heritage trees, or otherwise unique vegetation. In addition, there are no scenic or historic
resources within the project vicinity that would be visible from a state scenic highway, nor would the

UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                           43
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT / CHECKLIST



project result in damage to scenic resources in the vicinity of the proposed project. Moreover, as
previously mentioned, the 2020 LRDP envisaged buildout of the project site and the proposed Aquatics
Center would not have a greater impact on scenic resources than the impacts reasonably assumed in the
2020 LRDP EIR. Impacts to scenic resources would be less than significant.

                                                                            Further       2020 LRDP EIR
                                                                           Analysis           Analysis
                                                                           Required          Sufficient
3. Create a new source of substantial light or glare which would                                 
adversely affect day- or night-time views in the area?

EXISTING SOURCES OF NIGHTTIME LIGHTING
Figures 1 and 2 in the introductory sections of this SEIR show the project's location and urban context.
Bounded by Bancroft Way on the north and Durant Avenue on the south, the project lies within the
Southside portion of the Campus, in an urbanized area at the edge of downtown Berkeley.

With respect to nighttime lighting in the immediate project vicinity, sensitive receptors are limited to
several two and three story residences located across from the site, on the south side of Durant Avenue.
Sight lines from these residences toward the project site are largely obstructed by mature deciduous and
broadleaf evergreen street trees that line both sides of Durant Avenue. Photographs 1, 2, 5 and 7 illustrate
the presence of vegetation screening between the project site and residences located across the street on
Durant Avenue (refer to figures 3a, 3c, and 3d).

Nighttime lighting in the area is generally typical of an urban environment that includes a mixture of
commercial, residential and institutional uses. Pole mounted street lights provide nighttime illumination
on nearby or adjacent streets and sidewalks. Street lights in the project vicinity generally operate between
dusk and dawn, with light poles typically ranging in height from approximately 25 to 30 feet. Additional
sources of nighttime lighting include residential and commercial lighting as well as lighting associated
with campus facilities such as the adjacent Tang Center. Nearby sources of commercial night lighting
include a gas station that closes at 10:00 PM, located immediately southwest at Fulton Street and Durant
Avenue, and another gas station that operates 24 hours, located along Oxford Street within
approximately 300 feet to the northwest.

The project site is currently used as a parking lot with spaces for approximately 230 vehicles. Four sets of
double light fixtures that are mounted approximately 30 feet high on metal light standards illuminate the
parking lot throughout the night, from dusk until dawn. In addition, a lower, single pole-mounted fixture
is located near the driveway at Bancroft Way. Photographs 9 and 10 are nighttime views of the project
site, as seen from Bancroft Way and Durant Avenue (refer to Figure 3e).

PROPOSED PROJECT LIGHTING AND EXTERIOR MATERIALS
The Proposed Project includes lighting for safety, security and architectural design treatment. Figure 4
shows the proposed project layout and Figures 7 and 8 are elevation drawings. The event lighting
described below is depicted on the Site Plan and West Elevation drawings shown respectively on Figures
4 and 8. Figures 9 and 10 are two conceptual, rendered illustrations of the proposed project. The
renderings provide an impression of the project's nighttime appearance.

The proposed project would include building-mounted and near ground-level perimeter safety lighting
as well as 25 foot high pole-mounted event lighting at the pool area. Along the mid-block passageway
west of the Tang Center, new 16 foot pole-mounted lights would be installed for night-time safety. The
new buildings, as well as the 46-foot dive tower core, would be illuminated on the interior with lighting

UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                           44
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT / CHECKLIST



designed to create a soft glow. In addition, some glass wall panels and windows would increase night-
time visibility of the facility. All lighting fixtures would be designed to include shields and other devices
to minimize light spillage and atmospheric light pollution. All lighting other than building and near
ground-level safety lighting would be turned off by 10:00 PM or earlier.

Event lighting includes LED light fixtures mounted on 25 feet high poles with two LED fixtures on each
pole. The 22 light poles would be evenly spaced along the east and west sides of the pool and include
LED fixtures that focus light downward and on site, with little spill. For the rare (estimated 4 times per
year) evening competitive event, the project event lighting would meet the Pac 12 Network lighting
requirements of a 70-footcandle average illumination maintained over the main deck and pool. Under
typical (non-event) conditions, ambient lighting on the pool deck would be approximately 15 footcandles,
or the minimum needed for safety and coaching functions (for example, reading a clipboard). For
reference, full daylight is approximately 1,000 footcandles and an overcast day is approximately 100
footcandles.

Exterior materials for the new facility buildings and perimeter walls would consist of a varied palette
including textured gray masonry and gray cast-in place concrete, patterned gray aluminum panel siding
and translucent non glare, tinted blue glass. The materials are generally non-reflective. As described
below, final selection of these elements is subject to design review procedures (LRDP Mitigation Measure
AES- 3-b).

POTENTIAL NIGHTTIME LIGHTING AND GLARE EFFECTS
The project would involve replacing an existing surface parking lot that is illuminated by approximately
30-foot tall overhead lights from dawn to dusk with a modern aquatic facility that would include
nighttime lighting that would not be operated past 10:00 PM. The new project lighting would be designed
to meet safety, security and architectural design objectives using energy efficient, non-glare fixtures. The
new lighting proposed as part of the project would generally appear consistent and compatible with
existing nighttime lighting that is present in the immediate vicinity. In addition, proposed exterior
materials would include a palette of visually coherent, non-reflective treatment.

Daily use of the new pool facility would not occur past 6:30 PM. However, on limited occasions,
estimated at four times per year, event lighting would be used to illuminate the pool and deck area. The
proposed project includes removal of all of the existing parking lot lighting and potential relocation of
some of the lighting to the smaller reconfigured parking area. Given the proposed lighting design and
layout changes and the proposed schedule of operation, the proposed project would result in an overall
decrease in the amount of nighttime lighting that occurs regularly at the project site.

The new buildings would generally screen views of the event lighting fixtures from Bancroft Avenue.
Direct views of lighting from Durant Avenue would be minimized because the event lighting fixtures are
designed to point downward with an orientation facing east-west. In addition, existing mature street
trees provide considerable screening with respect to potential nighttime lighting effects on residences
located along the south side of Durant Avenue.

As described above, nighttime lighting associated with the proposed project would not increase lighting
over levels anticipated in the 2020 LRDP EIR: event lighting would be infrequent, would be low and
directed, and would be turned off after competition use, contrasted with existing site lighting. Therefore
the project would not create a new source of substantial light or glare which would adversely affect day
or nighttime views in the area.


UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                            45
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT / CHECKLIST



Further, Mitigation Measures AES-3-a and AES-3-b from the 2020 Long Range Development Plan (LRDP)
would ensure the project's potential light and glare are less than significant.

                                                                                   Further         2020 LRDP EIR
                                                                                  Analysis             Analysis
                                                                                  Required            Sufficient
4. Substantially degrade the existing visual character or quality of the                                  
site and its surroundings?

The proposed new aquatics center would replace an existing surface parking lot with low to modest
visual quality and character with an architect-designed new facility that has undergone review by the
City's and the University's respective design review committees. The new facility, which consists of one -
story buildings and a 46-foot dive tower, would be compatible in terms of scale with the surrounding
one, two and three-story buildings. Moreover, as previously mentioned, the 2020 LRDP envisaged
buildout of the project site and the proposed Aquatics Center's modest scale would not have a greater
aesthetic impact than the impacts reasonably assumed in the 2020 LRDP EIR; buildout under the LRDP
could reasonable accommodate a much larger structure on the site (see, for example, the potential project
as proposed for the site at illustrative concept Figure 3B in the LRDP, p. 3.1-21 of Vol 1 of the 2020 LRDP
EIR) . The project would not substantially degrade the existing visual character or quality of the site and
its surroundings or result in additional or increased impacts than those studied in the LRDP EIR. As a
supplement to this analysis, consistency with the UC's and the City's guidelines for development on the
site follows.

UC BERKELEY PROJECT SPECIFIC DESIGN GUIDELINES
UC Berkeley developed project specific design guidelines for the project site in 2008 (these guidelines are
included in this SEIR as Appendix B). The project specific design guidelines were developed based on the
conversion of the existing parking lot to either office, administrative, and housing uses, including a
training or competitive aquatics venue. These project specific design guidelines also reference and
incorporate the design guidelines contained in the City of Berkeley Southside Plan.

The project specific design guidelines provide a general approach offering a broad overview of guidelines
and objectives for the development of the project site. Those guidelines that are relevant to the proposed
Cal Aquatics Center and that relate in some form to analysis of visual character and quality are discussed
below. Guidelines applicable only to residential projects are not included.

        The project should be designed to respect and enhance the character, livability, cultural vitality of the city;
        New construction or renovation should respect historic integrity, enhancing and complementing, rather
        than competing with retained or surrounding buildings;
        Buildings shall enhance the aesthetics and utility of the streetscape for pedestrians.
        Utilize massing, setbacks, articulation, roof form and materials to create a modulated building mass
        appropriate in scale to the context of this subarea. (Southside Plan Design Guidelines, 189)
        For projects with over 100 feet of street frontage, avoid the appearance of a large building mass in favor of a
        series of medium-size elements placed next to one another, or incorporate recesses or projections in the
        facade plane.
        Locate new buildings parallel to the street to reinforce the dominant existing pattern of building placement.
        The structure should be appropriately scaled so as not to conflict with the lower density residential
        buildings along Durant...
        The building massing should be sensitive to views from and if practicable preserve views of the Campanile
        and glimpses of the East Bay hills from the site...


UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                                      46
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT / CHECKLIST



        New construction on the site should seek to restore as much of this open space as practicable the
        University's need for the site.

The project site is within the City Environs. It is bordered on three sides by UC facilities (athletics, offices
and student services) and on one side (across Durant Avenue) by non-UC residential buildings. Through
the use of massing, setbacks, and building materials, the Project has been designed to complement and
not overwhelm the adjacent larger Tang Center and similar-scaled Office of Public Affairs building.
Additionally, through attention to details such as lighting, scale and landscaping, the Project is intended
to respect both the adjacent university facilities and the residential area across Durant Avenue. The
Project would enhance the vitality and utility of the area by replacing a surface parking lot with an active
use that supports student life and athletic programs but also provides an additional venue for camps that
serve the community. The main entry would be centered between the Edwards Stadium concrete pylons
across the street as a way of visually connecting back to the University and the historic wall at Edwards
Stadium.

As shown in Figure 4, the project would have over 156 feet of street frontage. The proposed project would
consist of three one-story buildings surrounding a 52-meter swimming pool. As shown in Figure 7, the
Bancroft Way façade would incorporate recesses and projections in the façade plane, including the main
entryway. Translucent glass would weave in and out of the façade, accentuating the varying façade
plane. The placement of the proposed facility would be parallel to Bancroft Way, similar to surrounding
development, such that placement of the new facility would reinforce the dominant pattern of existing
building placement. Views of the Campanile and glimpses of the East Bay hills would still be available to
divers and pool users from some portions of the site. The project site is currently developed with a
surface parking lot and does not contain areas of open space. The proposed Aquatics Center would
provide greater landscaped areas compared to existing conditions, but would not provide large areas of
open space.

Additionally, the campus design guidelines suggest that new buildings incorporate an entry plaza or
terrace at the main entrance in order to serve as a site for casual interactions and socialization. The
Project, as proposed, would not incorporate an entry plaza or terrace in the main entrance (refer to the
comments provided by the UC Design Review Committee). The project does include a substantial
breezeway and entry "patio;" this feature would add visual relief and articulation but would not be open
to the public on a regular basis. Thus the design of the proposed project would be somewhat inconsistent
with this element of the campus design guidelines. However, the inconsistency with this design guideline
would not result in a significant impact to the visual character of the project site or its surroundings,
especially as the site is currently developed with a surface parking lot rather than an active recreational
use which would serve the University and the community.

CITY OF BERKELEY SOUTHSIDE PLAN DESIGN GUIDELINES
As previously stated, the Southside plan contains design guidelines, which are intended to ensure that
new development respects the existing architectural context of the R-SMU area, while complimenting the
scale and character of the remaining portions of Southside. The design guidelines include language
similar to that in the Southside Plan, with additional provisions and specificity. Selected applicable
excerpts include the following:

    ...The design should unify the neighborhood and create consistent architectural character within the subarea.
    New construction can be creative but should complement existing buildings. Additionally, large underused
    sites create opportunities for contemporary design that respects the historical context. Mixed use with ground-
    floor retail should be encouraged along Bancroft Way in order to create a linkage to Downtown. Streetscape

UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                                  47
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT / CHECKLIST



    amenities such as street lighting, landscaping, or architectural fixtures are encouraged to further create this
    linkage...

    ...The design guidelines for this subarea are intended to ensure that new construction respects the existing
    architectural context of this subarea and complements the scale and character of the rest of the Southside. The
    design should help unify the neighborhood and create consistent architectural character within the subarea.
    New construction can be creative but should complement existing buildings. Additionally, large underused
    sites create opportunities for contemporary design that respects the historical context...

    ...New buildings should reflect and reinforce the height, scale, massing, rhythm, and proportion of buildings in
    this subarea...

    ...Create pedestrian interest at the ground floor...

The Southside area contains a mixture of land use types including residential, institutional, and
recreational uses. The proposed project would be located across from existing UC Berkeley athletics
facilities (i.e. Edwards Stadium and Evan's Diamond) and is approximately 550 feet north of the
Channing Tennis Courts, which are located in the Southside area of Berkeley. As previously mentioned,
the project has been designed to compliment rather than overwhelm existing buildings in the vicinity of
the project site. The development of the new facility would include siting the main entry way such that
the proposed Aquatics Center would be visually linked to other UC facilities and the historic wall at
Edwards Stadium thereby respecting the historic integrity of the wall. The scale falls within the range of
development in the immediate vicinity, which includes buildings from one to three stories in height. The
modern design is compatible with the right angles and solid planes of the adjacent Tang Center and
Public Affairs building. The extensive glass and substantial entryway return would create a level of
interest and pedestrian interaction at the ground floor. Finally, the City's Design Review Committee
offered the following generally favorable comments on the design and overall program at their hearing of
February 21, 2013:

        ·    This is a nice project and will be a nice addition to Bancroft.
        ·    Trees removed on site should be replaced with as close to the same number as possible, and
             as large as possible.
        ·    Consider a higher quality fence material than chain link proposed.
        ·    Strongly recommend using solar panels.
        ·    Consider if there is a better choice than jasmine on the west-facing trellis that may be more
             vigorous and less maintenance, and work better with the heat-gain from the asphalt to the
             west.
        ·    Add street trees wherever possible.
        ·    Although a use issue, and not design, it would be great if Berkeley High could use the pool
             when possible.

The Southside Plan encourages mixed-use projects with ground-floor retail along Bancroft Way, which
would not be provided by the proposed project. As the proposed project is not a mixed-use project that
incorporates ground-floor retail, the location of the proposed Aquatics Center is inconsistent with the
intent of development on this particular site. However, the intent to encourage development of mixed-
use projects on the along Bancroft Way is a matter of land use policy and would not result in significant
impacts to the visual character of the project site and its surroundings. Moreover, the project would
include streetscape amenities such as street lighting, landscaping, and architectural fixtures which could
serve to create a linkage to the Downtown area and would contribute more to the pedestrian
environment than the existing parking lot.


UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                                   48
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT / CHECKLIST



As discussed above, the proposed design of the new Aquatics Center would not be in conflict with the
general objectives of the project specific design guidelines as well as the majority of the general design
guidelines contained in the Southside Plan. Design and construction of the proposed project would be
reviewed by the UC Berkeley Design Review Committee, based on project specific design guidelines
informed by the provisions of the City of Berkeley General Plan, the Southside Plan, and the 2020 LRDP.
The proposed project would be located across from existing UC recreational uses (i.e. Edwards Stadium
and Evan's Diamond) and would be located approximately 550 feet north of the Channing Tennis Courts,
which are located in the Southside area of Berkeley. As the Southside area contains a mixture of land use
types, building forms, and architectural designs, and the project site is located in close proximity to other
(UC and non-UC) recreational uses, the proposed project would be generally consistent with the varied
visual character of the Southside area and the City Environs.

Furthermore, the Project would implement the provisions of the 2020 LRDP EIR (Best Practices AES-1-b,
AES-1-e, and AES-1-h) with respect to the visual character of the building and landscape.

SUMMARY OF AESTHETICS ANALYSIS
The 2020 LRDP EIR determined projects implementing the 2020 LRDP, which would incorporate design
provisions of the 2020 LRDP and mitigation measures relating to light and glare, would not result in
significant aesthetic impacts (2020 LRDP EIR Vol 1, 4.1-15 to 4.1-19); nor would the project-level
implementation of the 2020 LRDP make a cumulatively considerable contribution to adverse aesthetic
impacts (2020 LRDP EIR Vol 1, 4.1-22 to 4.1-24). As described above, the proposed project would not change
the less than significant impact conclusions reached in the LRDP EIR related to scenic vistas, scenic
resources, light and glare, and the existing visual character of the site and its surroundings associated
with implementation of the LRDP. The proposed project would be developed in accordance with the
design guidelines contained in the 2020 LRDP and would use the design guidelines contained in the
Southside Plan as a general guide for the design of the proposed project. As previously discussed, the
Southside Plan encourages mixed-use development with ground-floor retail along Bancroft Way, and the
proposed project would not be consistent with the type of development encouraged by the Southside
Plan. However, this inconsistency is a matter primarily of land use policy; as discussed in the analysis
above, the project would not result in significant impacts related to visual resources and the changes to
the aesthetic environment are within the scope of the 2020 LRDP EIR analysis.

AIR QUALITY
SETTING
The air quality setting of the campus is described in the 2020 LRDP EIR (Section 4.2). The following text
summarizes context information for air quality relevant to the Cal Aquatics Center.

Construction Emissions. Construction activities are a source of dust emissions that can have temporary
impacts on local air quality by possibly exceeding State air quality standards. These emissions are
generated from land clearing, ground excavation, cut and fill operations, demolition and the construction
of project facilities. Dust emissions vary from day to day depending on the level of activity, the specific
operations and the prevailing weather. Air emissions modeling completed for the 2020 LRDP EIR
assumed up to one million gross square feet of space could be under construction at any one time under
the 2020 LRDP.

Dust from construction and demolition activities would be addressed by Bay Area Air Quality
Management District (BAAQMD) Regulation 1, Section 301, which states that sources cannot emit air
contaminants that cause nuisances to `any considerable number of persons or the public,' and by

UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                            49
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT / CHECKLIST



adherence to construction emission mitigation measures incorporated into construction contracts. The
project site is located on an existing surface parking lot occupied by a parking kiosk. Therefore, no
demolition or alteration of existing buildings will be required; therefore, no asbestos-containing building
materials are expected to be encountered.

In June 2010, the BAAQMD Board of Directors adopted thresholds of significance to assist in the review
of projects under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). On March 5, 2012 the Alameda
County Superior Court issued a judgment finding that the BAAQMD had failed to comply with CEQA
when it adopted the thresholds contained in its 2010 CEQA Guidelines (BAAQMD Homepage, accessed
January 2013). As such, lead agencies need to determine appropriate air quality thresholds of significance
based on substantial evidence in the record. Lead agencies may rely on the BAAQMD's CEQA Guidelines
(updated May 2011) for assistance in calculating air pollution emissions, obtaining information regarding
the health impacts of air pollutants, and identifying potential mitigation measures. However, the
BAAQMD has been ordered to set aside the thresholds. Lead agencies may continue to rely on the
BAAQMD's 1999 Thresholds of Significance and to make determinations regarding the significance of an
individual project's air quality impacts based on substantial evidence in the record for that project.

For this EIR, UC Berkeley has determined that the significance thresholds in the BAAQMD's May 2011
CEQA Guidelines for project operations within the San Francisco Bay Area Air Basin are the most
appropriate thresholds for use to determine air quality impacts of the proposed Cal Aquatics Facility. UC
Berkeley has used the May 2011 BAAQMD thresholds in previous environmental analyses under CEQA
and found them to be reasonable thresholds for assessing air quality impacts. In addition, these
thresholds are lower than the 1999 BAAQMD thresholds, and thus use of the thresholds in the May 2011
CEQA Guidelines is more conservative. Therefore, these thresholds are considered reasonable for use in
this EIR.

The 2020 LRDP EIR includes mitigation measures and best practices that substantially align with
BAAQMD-recommended project-specific control measures for construction; other measures are part of
campus best practices in contracting. The eight basic control measures in the most recent BAAQMD
CEQA Guidance document (BAAQMD CEQA Guidelines, May 2012, page 8-3) are listed below along
with their counterparts in the 2020 LRDP EIR:

        1.   All exposed surfaces (e.g., parking areas, staging areas, soil piles, graded areas, and unpaved
             access roads) shall be watered two times per day.

        Counterpart: 2020 LRDP Continuing Best Practice AIR-4-a (reprinted below)

        2.   All haul trucks transporting soil, sand, or other loose material off-site shall be covered.

        Counterpart: 2020 LRDP Continuing Best Practice AIR-4-a (reprinted below)

        3.   All visible mud or dirt track-out onto adjacent public roads shall be removed using wet
             power vacuum street sweepers at least once per day. The use of dry power sweeping is
             prohibited.

        Counterpart: 2020 LRDP Mitigation Measure AIR-4-a (reprinted below)

        4.   All vehicle speeds on unpaved roads shall be limited to 15 mph.


UC BERKELEY CAL AQUATICS CENTER                                                                            50
                                                                                               All Traffic Data
                                                                                                            (916) 771-8700
City of Berkeley                                                                                                                                                            File Name        : 13-7078-001 Ellsworth-Bancroft
Bicycles on Bank 1                                                                                                                                                          Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                                            Start Date       : 2/5/2013
                                                                                                                                                                            Page No          :1


                                                                                                  Groups Printed- Unshifted
                                Driveway                                  Bancroft Way                             Ellsworth Street                                             Bancroft Way
                              Southbound                                   Westbound                                  Northbound                                                 Eastbound
 Start Time        Left    Thr     Rig Ped         App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds           App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                    App. Total       Left    Thru Right Peds       App. Total   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
          07:00       0       0        0     12             0      0     62        2        26        64        12         5           0      34           17           0         0    0       0            0           72             81           153
          07:15       0       0        0     37             0      0     87        4        23        91        24        10           0      32           34           0         0    0       0            0           92            125           217
          07:30       0       0        4     43             4      0     65        2        28        67        17        12           0      50           29           0         0    0       0            0          121            100           221
          07:45       0       0        0     73             0      0    134        8        83       142        40        19           0     101           59           0         0    0       0            0          257            201           458
           Total      0       0        4    165             4      0    348       16       160       364        93        46           0     217          139           0         0    0       0            0          542            507          1049

          08:00       0       0        2     46            2       0    160        5        52       165        28        17           0      64           45           0         0    0       0            0          162            212           374
          08:15       0       0        3     42            3       0    137       12        18       149        38        24           0      55           62           0         0    0       0            0          115            214           329
          08:30       0       0        1     55            1       0    145       12        31       157        29        18           0      50           47           0         0    0       0            0          136            205           341
          08:45       0       0        5     57            5       0    144       11        65       155        45        23           0      88           68           0         0    0       0            0          210            228           438
           Total      0       0       11    200           11       0    586       40       166       626       140        82           0     257          222           0         0    0       0            0          623            859          1482




          16:00       0       0       17     64           17       0    205        2        61       207        38         3           0     132           41           0         0    0       0            0          257            265           522
          16:15       0       0        9     75            9       0    131        0        43       131        31         5           0      95           36           0         0    0       0            0          213            176           389
          16:30       0       0       22     76           22       0    157        2        38       159        31         5           0      84           36           0         0    0       0            0          198            217           415
          16:45       0       0       22     65           22       0    160        2        57       162        46         1           0     129           47           0         0    0       0            0          251            231           482
           Total      0       0       70    280           70       0    653        6       199       659       146        14           0     440          160           0         0    0       0            0          919            889          1808

          17:00       0       0       18    108           18       0    179        1        78       180        44         5           0     117           49           0         0    0       0            0          303           247            550
          17:15       0       0       23     76           23       0    208        1        63       209        67         4           0      92           71           0         0    0       0            0          231           303            534
          17:30       0       0       13     65           13       0    192        0        42       192        61         5           0      71           66           0         0    0       0            0          178           271            449
          17:45       0       0       20     44           20       0    178        1        53       179        50         6           0      82           56           0         0    0       0            0          179           255            434
           Total      0       0       74    293           74       0    757        3       236       760       222        20           0     362          242           0         0    0       0            0          891          1076           1967

    Grand Total       0       0     159     938          159       0   2344        65      761      2409        601       162          0    1276          763           0         0    0       0            0        2975           3331           6306
      Apprch %        0       0     100                            0   97.3       2.7                          78.8      21.2          0                                0         0    0
        Total %       0       0     4.8                  4.8       0   70.4         2                72.3        18       4.9          0                 22.9           0         0    0                    0         47.2           52.8




                                        Driveway                                        Bancroft Way                                       Ellsworth Street                                    Bancroft Way
                                      Southbound                                         Westbound                                            Northbound                                        Eastbound
         Start Time         Left      Thru       Right    App. Total      Left          Thru      Right     App. Total          Left          Thru     Right         App. Total       Left     Thru      Right         App. Total             Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 to 08:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00
              08:00            0          0         2             2           0          160         5            165            28            17                0           45         0          0            0                    0              212
              08:15            0          0         3             3           0          137        12            149            38            24                0           62         0          0            0                    0              214
              08:30            0          0         1             1           0          145        12            157            29            18                0           47         0          0            0                    0              205
              08:45            0          0         5             5           0          144        11            155            45            23                0           68         0          0            0                    0              228
      Total Volume             0          0        11            11           0          586        40            626           140            82                0          222         0          0            0                    0              859
                                                                       All Traffic Data
                                                                                 (916) 771-8700
City of Berkeley                                                                                                                File Name       : 13-7078-001 Ellsworth-Bancroft
Bicycles on Bank 1                                                                                                              Site Code       : 00000000
                                                                                                                                Start Date      : 2/5/2013
                                                                                                                                Page No         :1


                                                                            Groups Printed- Bank 1
                             Driveway                           Bancroft Way                           Ellsworth Street                           Bancroft Way
                           Southbound                            Westbound                                Northbound                               Eastbound
      Start Time    Left   Thru     Right   App. Total   Left   Thru      Right App. Total      Left      Thru     Right    App. Total   Left     Thru      Right   App. Total   Int. Total
           07:00      0       0        0             0     0       4         0           4         1         1          1            3     0         0         1             1           8
           07:15      0       0        0             0     0       4         0           4         1         1          2            4     0         1         0             1           9
           07:30      0       0        0             0     0       2         1           3         0         0          2            2     0         1         0             1           6
           07:45      0       0        0             0     0       6         0           6         1         3          0            4     0         2         0             2          12
            Total     0       0        0             0     0      16         1          17         3         5          5          13      0         4         1             5          35

          08:00       0       0        0            0      1       6         0           7         2         0         0            2      0          1        0            1          10
          08:15       0       0        0            0      0       9         0           9         7         0         1            8      0          2        0            2          19
          08:30       0       0        0            0      0       6         0           6         2         0         1            3      0          0        0            0           9
          08:45       0       0        0            0      1      11         0          12        10         2         2           14      0          0        0            0          26
           Total      0       0        0            0      2      32         0          34        21         2         4           27      0          3        0            3          64




          16:00       0       0        0            0      0       6         0           6         1         0         0            1      0          0        0            0           7
          16:15       0       0        0            0      0      10         0          10         2         0         1            3      0          0        0            0          13
          16:30       0       0        0            0      0      14         0          14         1         0         1            2      0          0        0            0          16
          16:45       0       0        0            0      0      14         1          15         3         0         0            3      0          0        0            0          18
           Total      0       0        0            0      0      44         1          45         7         0         2            9      0          0        0            0          54

          17:00       0       1        1            2      1      17         0          18         4         1         1            6      0          1        0            1          27
          17:15       0       0        0            0      1      17         0          18         1         0         1            2      0          3        0            3          23
          17:30       0       0        1            1      1      11         0          12         0         0         1            1      0          1        0            1          15
          17:45       0       0        1            1      0      16         0          16         3         0         1            4      0          3        0            3          24
           Total      0       1        3            4      3      61         0          64         8         1         4           13      0          8        0            8          89

     Grand Total      0       1         3           4      5     153         2         160        39        8         15           62      0         15        1           16         242
      Apprch %        0      25        75                3.1    95.6       1.2                  62.9     12.9       24.2                   0       93.8      6.2
         Total %      0     0.4       1.2          1.7   2.1    63.2       0.8        66.1      16.1      3.3        6.2         25.6      0        6.2      0.4           6.6
                                                                                          All Traffic Data
                                                                                                     (916) 771-8700
City of Berkeley                                                                                                                                                      File Name     : 13-7078-002 Ellsworth-Durant
Bicycles on Bank 1                                                                                                                                                    Site Code     : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                                      Start Date    : 2/5/2013
                                                                                                                                                                      Page No       :1


                                                                                               Groups Printed- Unshifted
                            Ellsworth Street                              Durant Avenue                         Ellsworth Street                                        Durant Avenue
                              Southbound                                    Westbound                              Northbound                                             Eastbound
 Start Time        Left    Thr     Rig Ped          App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds       App. Total Left Thru Right Peds                     App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds       App. Total   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
          07:00       0       0        0        2            0      0     0       0     3            0        0         4            7       6           11     10      49    0      23            59            34             70           104
          07:15       0       0        0        6            0      0     0       0     1            0        0        22            3       8           25      9      52    0      23            61            38             86           124
          07:30       0       0        0        7            0      0     0       0     5            0        0        22            4      14           26     15      98    0      35           113            61            139           200
          07:45       0       0        0        1            0      0     0       0     1            0        0        35            7      58           42     20      99    0      58           119           118            161           279
           Total      0       0        0       16            0      0     0       0    10            0        0        83           21      86          104     54     298    0     139           352           251            456           707

          08:00       0       0        0        2            0      0     0       0       1          0        0        33            3      23           36     18     120    0      27           138            53            174           227
          08:15       0       0        0        2            0      0     0       0       2          0        0        40           13      13           53     21     108    0      20           129            37            182           219
          08:30       0       0        0        2            0      0     0       0       0          0        0        33            9      19           42     13      95    0      25           108            46            150           196
          08:45       0       0        0        4            0      0     0       0       6          0        0        54            7      29           61     16      98    0      53           114            92            175           267
           Total      0       0        0       10            0      0     0       0       9          0        0       160           32      84          192     68     421    0     125           489           228            681           909




          16:00       0       0        0       10            0      0     0       0     7            0        0        33           12      47           45      8     106    0      33           114            97            159           256
          16:15       0       0        0        2            0      0     0       0     3            0        0        27            8      42           35      8     106    0      34           114            81            149           230
          16:30       0       0        0        8            0      0     0       0     1            0        0        26           11      33           37     11     113    0      36           124            78            161           239
          16:45       0       0        0       15            0      0     0       0     3            0        0        35           11      27           46     13     123    0      44           136            89            182           271
           Total      0       0        0       35            0      0     0       0    14            0        0       121           42     149          163     40     448    0     147           488           345            651           996

          17:00       0       0        0        6            0      0     0       0     1            0        0        36           10      37           46     11     127    0      70           138           114            184           298
          17:15       0       0        0        7            0      0     0       0     2            0        0        65           14      44           79     10     120    0      68           130           121            209           330
          17:30       0       0        0        8            0      0     0       0     2            0        0        51            9      47           60      5     109    0      48           114           105            174           279
          17:45       0       0        0        8            0      0     0       0     5            0        0        48           18      39           66      5     113    0      58           118           110            184           294
           Total      0       0        0       29            0      0     0       0    10            0        0       200           51     167          251     31     469    0     244           500           450            751          1201

    Grand Total       0       0        0       90            0      0     0       0    43            0        0        564      146        486          710     193   1636    0     655         1829          1274           2539           3813
      Apprch %        0       0        0                            0     0       0                           0       79.4     20.6                            10.6   89.4    0
        Total %       0       0        0                     0      0     0       0                  0        0       22.2      5.8                      28     7.6   64.4    0                    72          33.4           66.6




                                   Ellsworth Street                               Durant Avenue                                          Ellsworth Street                            Durant Avenue
                                      Southbound                                   Westbound                                                Northbound                                 Eastbound
         Start Time         Left      Thru       Right     App. Total     Left     Thru     Right        App. Total          Left           Thru     Right     App. Total    Left     Thru     Right            App. Total             Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 to 08:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00
              08:00            0          0         0               0         0       0          0                0            0             33            3           36     18          120            0                138                174
              08:15            0          0         0               0         0       0          0                0            0             40           13           53     21          108            0                129                182
              08:30            0          0         0               0         0       0          0                0            0             33            9           42     13           95            0                108                150
              08:45            0          0         0               0         0       0          0                0            0             54            7           61     16           98            0                114                175
      Total Volume             0          0         0               0         0       0          0                0            0            160           32          192     68          421            0                489                681
                                                                            All Traffic Data
                                                                                      (916) 771-8700
City of Berkeley                                                                                                                       File Name    : 13-7078-002 Ellsworth-Durant
Bicycles on Bank 1                                                                                                                     Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                                       Start Date   : 2/5/2013
                                                                                                                                       Page No      :1


                                                                                Groups Printed- Bank 1
                           Ellsworth Street                         Durant Avenue                          Ellsworth Street                         Durant Avenue
                             Southbound                              Westbound                                Northbound                              Eastbound
      Start Time    Left     Thru      Right    App. Total   Left    Thru     Right App. Total      Left      Thru     Right    App. Total   Left    Thru     Right   App. Total   Int. Total
           07:00      1         0           0            1     0        0         0          0         0         3          0            3     1        1         0            2           6
           07:15      0         0           0            0     0        0         0          0         0         4          1            5     0        0         0            0           5
           07:30      0         0           0            0     0        0         0          0         1         4          3            8     0        2         0            2          10
           07:45      0         0           0            0     0        0         0          0         2         3          7          12      0        2         0            2          14
            Total     1         0           0            1     0        0         0          0         3        14        11           28      1        5         0            6          35

          08:00       0         1          0            1      0        0        0           0         1        3          2            6      0        6        0            6          13
          08:15       0         0          0            0      0        1        0           1         0        8          2           10      0        3        0            3          14
          08:30       0         0          0            0      0        0        0           0         0        4          0            4      0        1        0            1           5
          08:45       0         1          0            1      0        0        0           0         1        3          2            6      0        6        0            6          13
           Total      0         2          0            2      0        1        0           1         2       18          6           26      0       16        0           16          45




          16:00       0         1          0            1      0        1        0           1         0        1          3            4      1        2        0            3           9
          16:15       0         0          0            0      0        3        0           3         0        3          1            4      0        2        0            2           9
          16:30       0         0          0            0      0        0        0           0         0        2          0            2      0        4        0            4           6
          16:45       1         1          0            2      0        1        0           1         0        4          2            6      0        6        1            7          16
           Total      1         2          0            3      0        5        0           5         0       10          6           16      1       14        1           16          40

          17:00       1         1          0            2      0        4        0           4         0        3          1            4      0        7        0            7          17
          17:15       0         0          0            0      0        1        1           2         0        4          0            4      1        9        1           11          17
          17:30       0         1          0            1      0        0        0           0         1        1          1            3      0        3        0            3           7
          17:45       0         0          0            0      0        0        0           0         0        3          0            3      0       11        0           11          14
           Total      1         2          0            3      0        5        1           6         1       11          2           14      1       30        1           32          55

     Grand Total       3        6          0            9      0       11         1         12         6       53         25           84      3       65         2          70         175
      Apprch %      33.3     66.7          0                   0     91.7       8.3                  7.1     63.1       29.8                 4.3     92.9       2.9
         Total %     1.7      3.4          0           5.1     0      6.3       0.6         6.9      3.4     30.3       14.3           48    1.7     37.1       1.1          40
