A T H E R T ON L I B R A R Y B U I L D I NG P ROJ E C T
E N V I RON M E N T A L S C R E E N I NG A N A LY S I S




                        July 2011
A T H E R T ON L I B R A R Y B U I L D I NG P ROJ E C T
E N V I RON M E N T A L S C R E E N I NG A N A LY S I S




                        Submitted to:

                      Town of Atherton
                      83 Ashfield Road
                     Atherton, CA 94027



                        Prepared by:

                    LSA Associates, Inc.
                     2215 Fifth Street
                    Berkeley, CA 94710
                       510.540.7331




                         July 2011
                                    ATHERTON LIBRARY BUILDING PROJECT
                                    ENVIRONMENTAL SCREENING ANALYSIS




The purpose of this report is to assist the Town of Atherton and the Atherton Library Building
Steering Committee (ALBSC) in identifying the environmental constraints associated with
construction of a new library at three potential buildings sites that are currently under consideration. It
is anticipated that the Town will select a preferred site, which will be subject to further site plan
development and refinement and more detailed environmental review to comply with the
requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA).

This report begins with a brief description of existing library operations and facilities and a
background discussion on the need for a new library and the process undertaken by the Town and
ALBSC to address this need. Existing conditions and potential development scenarios for the three
potential sites are then described, beginning with the existing library location (Site A), followed by
two locations within Holbrook-Palmer Park (Park) (Sites B and C). The remainder of the report
includes a preliminary assessment of three environmental issue topics at each location: biological
resources; cultural resources; and transportation and parking. These issue topics were selected for
analysis based on the potential for environmental impacts to occur. Remaining environmental issue
topics will be addressed in the environmental documentation prepared for the selected site. The report
concludes with a summary of the findings identified in the analysis. All figures are included in
Attachment A to this report.


A.          CURRENT LIBRARY OPERATIONS AND FACILITIES
In 1931 the San Mateo County Library began providing library service to the Atherton community in
what is now Town Hall. In 1999, the San Mateo County Library Joint Powers Authority (JPA) was
established, which shifted governance from the County Board of Supervisors to the representatives of
the JPA Governing Board's member entities. Library service and operations are provided by the San
Mateo County Library and facilities are owned and maintained by each member entity.

The Atherton Library is located at 2 Dinkelspiel (Station) Lane in the Town of Atherton, California.
The library is generally surrounded by civic, residential, and transportation uses. The 6,038 square-
foot two-story building currently serves the Town of Atherton as well as nearby, unincorporated areas
of San Mateo County, for a service population of approximately 16,436. Current services include
materials collection, children's and family programming; events for Friends of the Library; and
access to larger collections. The public space in the library is all located on the first floor and consists
of: the entry; browsing area; self and assisted service points; technology area; children's collection
and seating; adult collection and seating; and teen collection and seating. Staff and building support
spaces are located on both the first and second floors. Approximately 4,790 square feet of the
building area consists of usable space.




P:\TOA1101 Atherton\PRODUCTS\Screening Analysis\Final Screening Analysis 07.06.11.doc (7/6/2011)          1
LSA ASSOCIATES, INC.                                                                               ATHERTON LIBRARY BUILDING PROJECT
JULY 2011                                                                                           ENVIRONMENTAL SCREENING ANALYSIS




The library includes a collection size of approximately 32,726 items (1.99 per capita). There are 22
seats available for adult readers and 28 seats in the children's area. Desk areas accommodate 8
computers for public use. There are no separate program or meeting rooms aside from the children's
area.

The library operates approximately 57 hours per week, from 10:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Monday through
Wednesday; 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Thursday through Friday; 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. on Saturdays;
and 1:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. on Sundays. There are a total of eight full- and part-time staff members
and aides.


B.          NEW LIBRARY BACKGROUND
Based on the expressed interest in the improvement of the Atherton Library and the completion by the
Town of a Structural Facility Evaluation in 2009, the San Mateo County Library completed a Library
Needs Assessment during fiscal year 2009-2010.1 The Library Needs Assessment findings indicate
that the existing facility presents significant barriers to the effective delivery of modern library
services. Specifically, the current library facilities are located in a remodeled residence which was not
designed for library use. Despite various renovations, issues with accessibility still exist. The open
floor plan creates acoustical issues for different types of uses, especially when activities are taking
place concurrently. The entry lobby and browsing area are undersized and overcrowded. In addition,
staff space is laid out inefficiently. The report recommends that in order to effectively meet identified
service needs, the facility would require an increase from the current 4,790 square feet to
approximately 11,100 square feet. Please refer to the Library Needs Assessment for further detail on
the study's methods and recommendations.

The recommendations in the Library Needs Assessment resulted in the formation of the ALBSC
which will oversee construction of the new library and guide the planning process. An architectural
firm, Group 4 Architecture Research + Planning, Inc. has been hired to develop a library building
program, and preliminary concept drawings for Phase I of the project, and to complete the site
selection process. The site approval process, overall concept of the new library, environmental
review, and community participation will also be completed during Phase I, which will then provide
the basis for Phase II, the schematic design phase.


C.          SITE LOCATIONS
As previously discussed, three possible sites are currently under consideration for development of the
new 11,100 square foot library: the existing library site at 2 Dinkelspiel (Station) Lane (Site A) and
two sites located within Holbrook-Palmer Park (Sites B and C). These site locations and regional
context are shown in Figure 1 and an aerial view of the potential sites is shown in Figure 2. The
existing conditions and potential building program for each of these potential sites are discussed in
detail below.



            1
         Anderson Brule Architects, Inc., 2010. Atherton Library Needs Assessment. Prepared for the San Mateo County
Library. February 10.



P:\TOA1101 Atherton\PRODUCTS\Screening Analysis\Final Screening Analysis 07.06.11.doc (7/6/2011)                                   2
LSA ASSOCIATES, INC.                                                                               ATHERTON LIBRARY BUILDING PROJECT
JULY 2011                                                                                           ENVIRONMENTAL SCREENING ANALYSIS




1.          Existing Library Site (Site A)
As previously described, the existing library is located at 2 Dinkelspiel (Station) Lane. The 6,038
square foot two-story building occupies approximately 15 percent of the approximately 40,544 square
foot site and is situated at the site's northwestern boundary. The remainder of the site is characterized
by a garden-like setting and is developed with landscaping, an open lawn area, a small plaza, a
circular paved pathway and various art sculptures, planter boxes, and sitting areas. Approximately 36
mature redwood trees are located at the site's southwest perimeter. There are 12 off-street parking
spaces dedicated for library use located in two separate lots perpendicular to the west side of
Dinkelspiel (Station) Lane. In addition, there are 5 parallel off-street spaces parallel to the east side of
the roadway and approximately 16 additional parallel on-street parking spaces to the west side of
Dinkelspiel (Station) Lane and Ashfield Road for a total combination of 33 dedicated and shared
spaces available to library users.

The library building and Atherton Town Hall were originally built in 1929. The existing library was
originally designed as a private residence and was occupied by the former police chief. In 1966, the
library relocated from the existing Town Hall building and the home was converted for library use. In
1967, an entryway, children's area and main reading area were added and a ramp was also added to
the back of the reading room to allow access to the exterior garden. In 1981, the building was again
expanded and a new lobby, restrooms, and ramp at the primary entrance were added. The lobby and
children's room were also converted into a staff area. Interior renovations were completed in 2000.

The site is located in an area with a variety of uses. The library building is immediately bordered to
the north by the Atherton Town Hall and council chambers, located at the corner of Dinkelspiel
(Station) Lane and Ashfield Road. The Town's administrative offices and police department are
located farther north, across Ashfield Road. Approximately 52 parking spaces are available to serve
these facilities. The Atherton Caltrain Station is located northeast of the site, near the intersection of
Fair Oaks Lane and Dinkelspiel (Station) Lane. This station is only served by Caltrain on weekends
and holidays, although trains regularly pass through on the way to the Redwood City and Menlo Park
stations. Approximately 96 spaces are available for this use.

The site is bordered on the east by Dinkelspiel (Station) Lane and the Town's Permit Office, Public
Works Office, and Corporation Yard and associated parking areas that are heavily screened by
existing vegetation. The Caltrain rail line corridor is located immediately east of these uses. Maple
Avenue borders the site to the south. The site is bounded by single-family residential neighborhoods
on both the south and west.

As shown in Figure 3, development of the new 11,100 square foot library at this location would
require demolition of the existing structure and removal of approximately three trees. Site coverage
would increase to approximately 32 percent and the existing 33 on- and off-street parking spaces may
or may not remain depending on the scenario chosen. The existing library site is generally referred to
as "Site A" throughout this analysis.

2.          Holbrook Palmer Park Sites (Sites B and C)
Holbrook-Palmer Park is located at 150 Watkins Avenue and is the only public park located in the
Town of Atherton. The approximately 22-acre park is characterized by civic, recreational, and
pastoral uses. Civic uses include the Main House, Pavilion, and Carriage House which are used for



P:\TOA1101 Atherton\PRODUCTS\Screening Analysis\Final Screening Analysis 07.06.11.doc (7/6/2011)                                   3
LSA ASSOCIATES, INC.                                                                               ATHERTON LIBRARY BUILDING PROJECT
JULY 2011                                                                                           ENVIRONMENTAL SCREENING ANALYSIS




various private and community events, meetings, and classes, and the lawn, plaza, and garden areas
also associated with these uses. A day-care center, the Park Corporation Yard, a Water Tower, City
Manager's Residence, restrooms, and a gazebo comprise the remaining structures within the Park.
Recreational uses within the Park include tennis courts, open lawn areas, walking paths, picnic areas,
a playground, sports fields, and an informal amphitheater. The remainder of the Park includes natural
and landscaped areas. The Park is generally open for public use from 7:30 a.m. to sunset, Monday
through Friday and from 8:30 a.m. to sunset on weekends and holidays. Scheduled meetings and
events at the various facilities may extend to approximately 12:00 a.m. (midnight).

The Main House was originally constructed as a private residence in 1959-1960 on the site of the
"Elmwood," a mansion built in the 1870s. In December 1958 the original mansion was destroyed in a
fire. The Main House consists of a 700 square foot meeting room, two smaller rooms, and a fully-
equipped kitchen. Maximum capacity of the Main House is approximately 70 people. The Pavilion
was constructed in 1977 to expand the private and community space available within the Park.
Together, the two facilities can accommodate 150 persons indoors and a total of 250 when the
outdoor patios are also used. The Carriage House, recognized by the Town of Atherton as a
"Historical Site," was built to replace the original barn that was destroyed by fire in 1896. The
maximum capacity of the Carriage House is approximately 90 persons. The Water Tower, also
recognized by the Town of Atherton as a "Historical Site," dates from the 1870s and provides a visual
point of interest within the Park.

Ingress and egress to the Park is provided by two separate one-way driveways on Watkins Avenue
and north of McCormick Lane, referred to as the "Park entrance" and "Park exit." Vehicular
circulation throughout the Park provides access to three internal parking lots, which accommodate 58,
22, and 44 parking spots, respectively, for a total of 124 formal parking spaces. Approximately 36
parallel parking spaces are also available along the internal driveway that runs through the center of
the Park. Event parking on the open lawn areas can accommodate an additional 80 vehicles.

The Park is surrounded by single-family residential neighborhoods and dense vegetation on all sides.
Watkins Avenue and the Atherton Channel storm drainage conduit border the site to the north and the
Caltrain rail line corridor borders the site to the west.

Two possible locations within the Park are currently under consideration for construction of the new
library. Each of these two possible scenarios are described in more detail below, and these locations
are referred to throughout this analysis as "Site B" and "Site C," as depicted in Figures 4 and 5. In
both cases the Main House would be demolished since, through the Holbrook-Palmer Park Master
Planning process in 2004/2005, the community has expressed a desire to not add any additional
structures to the Park. However, it is possible that some of the uses (e.g., meetings, classes, events)
currently accommodated by the Main Residence could be absorbed by the Pavilion, Carriage House,
or even the new library space.

a.    Main House Site (Site B). The Main House Site (Site B) is located within the general building
area of the existing Main House. Approximately 21,500 square feet of potential building area is
available at this location. Development of the new 11,100 square foot library at this site would require
demolition of the existing structure and removal of four protected trees. All driveways and parking
spaces within the Park, including the existing 24-space parking area immediately adjacent to and
north of the Main House, would be retained.



P:\TOA1101 Atherton\PRODUCTS\Screening Analysis\Final Screening Analysis 07.06.11.doc (7/6/2011)                                   4
LSA ASSOCIATES, INC.                                                                               ATHERTON LIBRARY BUILDING PROJECT
JULY 2011                                                                                           ENVIRONMENTAL SCREENING ANALYSIS




b.     Parking Lot Site (Site C). The Parking Lot Site (Site C) is located at the site of the main
parking area that currently accommodates approximately 59 spaces. Approximately 12,000 square
feet of potential building area is available at this location. All of these parking spaces would be
removed with development of the library at this site, for an overall reduction in parking to
approximately 94 dedicated spaces. Two protected trees would also be removed. The Main House
would also be demolished and an informal amphitheater/grass knoll would take its place.

The parking area immediately east of and adjacent to the existing Main House would be retained and
expanded, to replace some of the lost spaces. A new parking area, with ADA access, would also be
developed immediately adjacent to and north of the new building. The existing emergency vehicle
access roadway that currently provides access to the Main House would be removed and replaced
with open meadows. Emergency access to the new building would be available from the main
driveway within the Park, immediately to the west of the site.


D.          SCREENING ANALYSIS
The screening analysis outlined below identifies potential environmental constraints at each of the
three development sites. The topics of biological resources, cultural resources, and transportation and
parking are addressed. Where potential environmental constraints are identified, the discussion notes
whether or not the impacts may be reduced to a less-than-significant level with the implementation of
standard mitigation measures. A summary of the findings is included at the end of this chapter and a
comparison of potential impacts at each of the sites, both with and without mitigation, is presented in
Table 1. Please note that additional environmental analysis of the preferred site, when selected, will
be undertaken and a CEQA document will be prepared.

1.          Biological Resources
Both the existing library site and the Holbrook Palmer Park sites are located within developed areas
of the Town. Although the Town supports an abundance of native and ornamental trees, the dense
residential development and railroad corridor provide limited habitat for native wildlife except those
species that are tolerant of human disturbance. An LSA biologist visited both sites to identify
potential biological resources constraints. LSA's arborist also informally surveyed both sites with the
Town Arborist. Available literature, including the California Natural Diversity Data Base (CNDDB),
was also reviewed. As further described in the analysis below, impacts to biological resources are
expected to be limited to tree removal.

Chapter 8.10 of the Town's Municipal Code addresses removal and damage to heritage trees.
Heritage trees are defined as any tree, "located in the tree preservation area, or a native oak tree
located anywhere on a lot, which has a trunk circumference of 48-inches or more, when measures 48-
inches above the natural grade." A "tree preservation area" is defined as the area outside the building
area of the lot (assumed in this report to occur within 30 feet of the building footprint) and includes
trees to be protected. A permit is required for removal of heritage trees. As stated in Section
8.10.040(F) of the Municipal Code, for each heritage tree permitted to be removed, the permittee may
be required to plant three trees of 15-gallon container size; or two trees of 24-inch box container size;
or one tree of 15-gallon container size and one tree of 36-inch container size. Where native heritage
oak trees are allowed to be removed from within the buildable area, they are required to be replaced




P:\TOA1101 Atherton\PRODUCTS\Screening Analysis\Final Screening Analysis 07.06.11.doc (7/6/2011)                                   5
LSA ASSOCIATES, INC.                                                                               ATHERTON LIBRARY BUILDING PROJECT
JULY 2011                                                                                           ENVIRONMENTAL SCREENING ANALYSIS




with one or more trees of 48-inch container size of native oak species at a location approved by the
Planning Commission.

a.    Existing Library Site (Site A). Site A is located within an urban setting, and is mostly
developed with perennial ornamental and native landscaping, thus impacts to special-status plant and
animal species are not expected. No wetlands or other sensitive habitat communities were observed at
Site A. Impacts to biological resources at Site A consist of the following: (1) potential impacts to
nesting native birds; (2) removal of two protected trees; and (3) potential impacts to 31 protected trees
within 30 feet of the development footprint (see Attachment B, Figure A).

Project construction would result in the removal of ornamental trees and shrubs that could be used by
nesting birds. If conducted during the nesting season (February 1­August 31), construction activities
could directly impact nesting birds by removing trees or shrubs that support active nests. Construction
-related disturbance (e.g., noise, vehicle traffic, personnel working adjacent to suitable nesting
habitat) could also indirectly impact nesting birds by causing adults to abandon nests in nearby trees
or other vegetation, resulting in nest failure and reduced reproductive potential. The nests of native
birds are protected under the federal Migratory Bird Treaty Act and Section 3503 of the California
Fish and Game Code. To reduce potential impacts to nesting birds to a less-than-significant level, it is
recommended that vegetation removal activities be limited to the non-breeding season (September 1­
January 31) or, if such activities are scheduled during the breeding season, it is recommended that a
qualified biologist conduct a preconstruction nest survey of all trees or other suitable nesting habitat
prior to commencement of construction activities. The biologist's recommendations for protection of
identified nests should also be implemented.

As shown in Figure A, heritage trees within the 13,000 square foot building site include two native
coast live oaks (Quercus agrifolia). One coast redwood (Sequoia sempervirens) that is not considered
a heritage tree would also be removed from the site. The coast live oaks would be permanently
removed from Site A and planting of replacement trees would be required to mitigate this loss. To
mitigate the loss of two native coast live oaks, a minimum of two 48-inch container sized trees would
be planted (loss: replacement ratio of 1:1).

Trees adjacent to the footprint consist of three native coast live oaks, one native valley oak (Quercus
lobata), 26 native coast redwood, and one ornamental carob tree (Ceratonia siliqua). The Town
requires that a tree preservation area be established to protect trees outside of the proposed
development footprint, generally within 30 feet.

b.    Holbrook Palmer Park Sites (Sites B and C). The Holbrook Palmer Park sites are located
within an urban area that is mostly developed with ornamental and native landscaping; therefore,
impacts to special-status plant and animal species are not expected. No wetlands or other sensitive
habitat communities were observed within the vicinity of either potential site location within the Park.

       Main House Site (Site B). Impacts to biological resources at Site B consist of the following:
(1) potential impacts to nesting native birds and (2) potential impacts to 10 protected trees within 30
feet of the development footprint (see Attachment B, Figure B).




P:\TOA1101 Atherton\PRODUCTS\Screening Analysis\Final Screening Analysis 07.06.11.doc (7/6/2011)                                   6
LSA ASSOCIATES, INC.                                                                               ATHERTON LIBRARY BUILDING PROJECT
JULY 2011                                                                                           ENVIRONMENTAL SCREENING ANALYSIS




As discussed above, under the Site A analysis, potential impacts to nesting birds can be mitigated to a
less-than-significant level with the implementation of standard mitigation measures to be
implemented prior to and during the construction period.

There are no heritage trees within the 12,000 square foot potential building footprint. Four American
sweet gum trees (Liquidambar styraciflua), that are not heritage trees would be permanently removed
as a result of site development. No replacement of these trees would be required.

Trees adjacent to the footprint include three coast live oaks, two native coast redwood, two bunya-
bunya (Auricauria bidwillii), one southern magnolia (Magnolia grandiflora), one American elm
(Ulmus americanus), and one glossy privet (Ligustrum lucidum). A tree preservation area would be
established to protect trees within the 30-foot area outside of the development footprint.

       Parking Lot Site (Site C). Impacts to biological resources at Site C consist of the following:
(1) potential impacts to nesting native birds and (2) potential impacts to 10 protected trees within 30
feet of the development footprint (see Attachment B, Figure C).

As discussed above, under the Site A analysis, potential impacts to nesting birds can be mitigated to a
less-than-significant level with the implementation of standard mitigation measures to be
implemented prior to and during the construction period.

There are no heritage trees within the 21,000 square foot potential building footprint. Two American
sweet gum trees would be removed with development of the site, but these are not protected heritage
trees and no mitigation would be required.

Trees within the 30-foot are outside the building footprint include three white alder (Alnus
rhombifolia), four native coast live oak, one Canary Island date palm (Phoenix canariensis), one
American elm (Ulmus americana), and one Deodar cedar (Cedrus deodara). A tree preservation area
would be established to protect trees within the area outside of the development footprint.

2.          Cultural Resources
To identify potential impacts to cultural resources, LSA conducted a records search at the Northwest
Information Center (NWIC),1 reviewed documentation on file at the Town of Atherton Heritage
Room, and reviewed each of the potential sites for possible impacts related to cultural resources. An
analysis of potential impacts is provided below.

a.    Existing Library Site (Site A). The NWIC records search did not identify any recorded
cultural resources or previous cultural resources studies of Site A.

Preliminary background research and a field review by an LSA architectural historian identified a
potential historical resource within and adjacent to Site A: the existing Atherton Library and Town
Hall, jointly constructed in 1929. The Town Hall portion is recognized by the Town of Atherton as a
"Historical Site." Due to the building's historical association with significant events (the development
of municipal services in Atherton), and its distinctive characteristics of a type and period of construc-

            1
         The NWIC is an affiliate of the State Office of Historic Preservation and is the official repository for cultural
resources records and reports for San Mateo County.



P:\TOA1101 Atherton\PRODUCTS\Screening Analysis\Final Screening Analysis 07.06.11.doc (7/6/2011)                                   7
LSA ASSOCIATES, INC.                                                                               ATHERTON LIBRARY BUILDING PROJECT
JULY 2011                                                                                           ENVIRONMENTAL SCREENING ANALYSIS




tion (Spanish Eclectic), this building may be eligible for listing in the California Register of Historical
Resources under criteria 1 and 3 and a "historical resource" for purposes of CEQA (see CEQA
Guidelines Section 15064.5(a)(3)).

The Spanish Eclectic-style Town Hall and former residential portion of the building (now the existing
Atherton Library) were jointly constructed in 1929, with subsequent additions to the library building
done in 1967 and 1981 following the 1966 transfer of the residential portion to an Atherton Branch of
the San Mateo County Public Library. Despite these additions, however, the building appears to retain
its integrity of location, association, feeling, and setting. Its integrity of design, materials, and
workmanship, however, may be compromised by the additions.

Due to its potential historical significance, demolition of the existing Atherton Library would likely
constitute a potentially significant impact to a historical resource under CEQA, requiring the
preparation of an Environmental Impact Report. Mitigation of project impacts to a historical resource
may include photodocumentation, preparation of a historical context report for local historical
archives, public interpretation and outreach, and salvage of historically defining elements for re-use
off site. In most instances, however, demolition of a historical resource is a significant unavoidable
impact.

A field review by an LSA archaeologist did not identify any surface indicators of archaeological or
paleontological remains. It should be noted, however, that much of the ground surface was obscured
by landscape and hardscape features, and the potential for encountering such remains during project
ground-disturbing activities cannot be ruled out. Potential impacts to archaeological and paleontologi-
cal resources at this site could be reduced to a less-than-significant level with the implementation of
standard measures to be enforced during the construction period.

b.    Holbrook-Palmer Park Sites (Sites B and C). The NWIC records search did not identify any
recorded cultural resources or previous cultural resources studies of Sites B and C.

Preliminary background research and a field review by an LSA architectural historian identified a c.
1960 Minimal Traditional-style house (Main House) at Site B. The Minimal Traditional style and the
Ranch style were popular in California domestic architecture beginning in 1935, with widespread
popularity among builders until the 1990s, when the ranch style gradually fell out of favor and
neoeclectic designs became popular. The Main House does not appear to have an important associa-
tion with significant historical events or with the lives of persons important to our past. While the
Main House is an example of a distinctive type of architecture used throughout California and the
United States between 1935 and the 1990s, the alterations to the building appear to have significantly
compromised the ability of Main House to convey any potential significance. Additionally, there are
better examples of this style of architecture in the San Francisco Bay Area.

LSA also identified the Jennings Pavilion (Pavilion) at Site B, a building constructed in 1977 south of
the Main House. The Pavilion is 34 years old; as such, it is not of sufficient age to be considered a
historical resource (i.e., sufficient time has not passed in order to obtain a scholarly perspective
regarding its potential significance) (California Sate Office of Preservation 2011).

Although not located within Sites B or C, two historical buildings within Holbrook-Palmer Park are
located south and west of these proposed development sites: a c. 1870 Water Tower and a c. 1896



P:\TOA1101 Atherton\PRODUCTS\Screening Analysis\Final Screening Analysis 07.06.11.doc (7/6/2011)                                   8
LSA ASSOCIATES, INC.                                                                               ATHERTON LIBRARY BUILDING PROJECT
JULY 2011                                                                                           ENVIRONMENTAL SCREENING ANALYSIS




Carriage House. The Town considers both of these buildings Historical Sites, and these are "historical
resources" for purposes of CEQA due to their eligibility for listing in the California Register of
Historical Places. Although neither the Water Tower nor Carriage House will be directly affected by
the development of either Site B or Site C, historical resources can suffer indirect visual effects from
adjacent or nearby construction that impact the historical setting of the resource. It should be noted,
however, that such potential indirect visual effects to the Water Tower and Carriage House will likely
be avoided by critical review of the library's final design by the Town's Planning Commission and
Council. Therefore, impacts to these resources are not anticipated.

A field review by an LSA archaeologist did not identify any surface indicators of archaeological or
paleontological remains. It should be noted, however, that much of the ground surface was obscured
by landscape and hardscape features, and the potential for encountering such remains during project
ground-disturbing activities cannot be ruled out. Potential impacts to archaeological and paleontologi-
cal resources at this site could be reduced to a less-than-significant level with the implementation of
standard measures to be enforced during the construction period.


E.          TRANSPORTATION AND PARKING
A Traffic Impact Analysis was prepared to identify potential transportation and parking impacts at
each of the three development locations. Six study intersections were evaluated for potential level of
service (LOS) impacts, as follows:

·       Fair Oaks Lane/Dinkelspiel (Station) Lane
·       Watkins Avenue/Middlefield Road
·       Watkins Avenue/Holbrook-Palmer Park Exit
·       Watkins Avenue/Holbrook-Palmer Park Entrance
·       Watkins Avenue/Dinkelspiel (Station) Lane
·       Watkins Avenue/El Camino Real
Each of the study intersections were evaluated during the weekday AM peak period (7:00 a.m. to 9:00
a.m.) and the PM peak period (4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m.). The Watkins Avenue/Holbrook-Palmer Park
Exit and Watkins Avenue/Holbrook-Palmer Park Entrance intersections were also evaluated during
the weekend peak period (Saturday, 11:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.).

The existing conditions analysis determined that two of the study intersections currently function at
an unacceptable LOS. Watkins Avenue/Middlefield Road operates at LOS E in the PM peak hour.
Watkins Avenue/El Camino Real operates at LOS F in the AM peak hour. Both intersections exceed
LOS standards due to the difficulty of turning left from a collector onto an uncontrolled arterial.

Parking surveys were also conducted at both the existing library site and at Holbrook Palmer Park.
Parked vehicles were counted every hour between 10:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. on a weekday. Parking
counts were also conducted at Holbrook-Palmer Park between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
on a Saturday.




P:\TOA1101 Atherton\PRODUCTS\Screening Analysis\Final Screening Analysis 07.06.11.doc (7/6/2011)                                   9
LSA ASSOCIATES, INC.                                                                               ATHERTON LIBRARY BUILDING PROJECT
JULY 2011                                                                                           ENVIRONMENTAL SCREENING ANALYSIS




For the existing library site, parking utilization is highest during the 3:00 p.m. hour during the
weekday. At this time, 14 parking spaces are utilized and 19 are available. Parking utilization at
Holbrook-Palmer Park is highest during the 7:00 p.m. hour on a weekday. At this time, 64 parking
spaces are utilized and 60 are available. Unlike the surveyed weekday, the highest parking demand at
Holbrook Palmer Park occurred in the morning at 10:00 a.m. At that time, 75 spaces were utilized and
49 were available.

It should be noted that because the exact size of the new library is not currently known, LSA
conducted a conservative analysis for a facility up to 12,000 square feet. The outcome of the level of
service analysis would be the same with development of an 11,100 square foot library, while parking
demand would generally be slightly less than identified in the traffic analysis. The full traffic analysis
is included in Appendix C, and the results of the analysis are summarized below.

a.    Existing Library Site (Site A). No level of service impacts to study area intersections are
anticipated with development of the new library at the existing site and no mitigation measures would
be required. This alternative would require approximately 2 parking spaces in excess of existing
parking spaces. Sufficient space is available on the east side of Dinkelspiel (Station) Lane to expand
the 5 parallel parking spaces to 7, satisfying the additional parking demand or, additional demand
may be satisfied by shared parking opportunities at the adjacent lots associated with the Caltrain
Station and Town offices.

b.     Holbrook Palmer Park Sites (Sites B and C). Development of the new library at the Park
would result in a level of service impact at the Watkins Avenue/Middlefield Road intersection. This
impact would occur with either of the development sites. The impact at Watkins Avenue/Middlefield
Road can be mitigated to a less-than-significant level with modifications to the traffic control at the
intersection. The specifics of these modifications are yet to be determined. Although the Watkins
Avenue/El Camino Real intersection is currently operating at an unacceptable LOS, the library
project would not add sufficient traffic during the AM peak period to exacerbate this condition.

      Main House Site (Site B). Based on the results of the parking analysis, development of the
new library at the site of the existing Main House would not require the provision of additional
parking spaces. Sufficient unutilized parking currently exists in the Park during both peak-library
parking demand and peak-Park parking demand to absorb the increased parking demand generated by
the new library.

       Parking Lot Site (Site C). Development of the new library at the site of the existing parking
lot would result in the removal of approximately 58 parking spaces. Development of the new library
in this location would require 24 additional parking spaces to accommodate total parking demand
during the peak period. Figure 5 illustrates plans to add additional parking adjacent to the Central Lot.
According to the Urban Land Institute Dimensions of Parking, Fourth Edition, 270 to 300 square feet
per parking space is a reasonable estimate for a surface parking lot. By this estimate, approximately
7,200 square feet of currently green space would need to be used for parking.

F.          SUMMARY
As described in the above screening analysis, for each of the potential development sites, potential
impacts related to nesting birds; protected trees; unidentified archaeological and paleontological
resources; level of service and insufficient parking supply could all be reduced to a less-than-


P:\TOA1101 Atherton\PRODUCTS\Screening Analysis\Final Screening Analysis 07.06.11.doc (7/6/2011)                                 10
LSA ASSOCIATES, INC.                                                                               ATHERTON LIBRARY BUILDING PROJECT
JULY 2011                                                                                           ENVIRONMENTAL SCREENING ANALYSIS




significant level under CEQA with implementation of standard mitigation measures. However,
potentially significant environmental impacts were identified for Site A, which may require the
preparation of an Environmental Impact Report. Specifically, due to its potential historical
significance, demolition of the existing Atherton Library would likely constitute a potentially
significant impact to a historical resource under CEQA. Mitigation of project impacts to a historical
resource may include photodocumentation, preparation of a historical context report for local
historical archives, public interpretation and outreach, and salvage of historically defining elements
for re-use off site. In most instances, however, demolition of a historical resource is a significant
unavoidable impact.

The results of the analysis are further summarized in Table 1 below, which compares the potential
environmental constraints for biological resources, cultural resources, and transportation and parking
identified for each of the three sites. The first column identified the potential environmental impact
and the second column summarizes the recommended mitigation. The last three columns identify the
potential level of significance for Site A, Site B, and Site C both before mitigation and after mitigation.
Levels of significance are categorized as follows: SU = Significant and Unavoidable; S = Significant;
and LTS = Less Than Significant. If the identified impact does not apply to a particular site, it is
designated as "No Impact." The SU designation generally indicates that an Environmental Impact
Report may be required. The number of trees to be removed or disturbed and the number of new
parking spaces that may be required are also included in these columns, for ease of comparison.




P:\TOA1101 Atherton\PRODUCTS\Screening Analysis\Final Screening Analysis 07.06.11.doc (7/6/2011)                                 11
LSA ASSOCIATES, INC.                                                                                                                            ATHERTON LIBRARY BUILDING PROJECT
JULY 2011                                                                                                                                        ENVIRONMENTAL SCREENING ANALYSIS




Table 1: Site Comparison of Potentially Significant Environmental Impacts
                                                                                                                                   Site A         Site B            Site C
                                                                                                                                Without/With   Without/With      Without/With
     Potential Environmental Impacts                                                                   Recommended Mitigation    Mitigation     Mitigation        Mitigation
Biological Resources
Potential impacts to nesting birds             Preconstruction surveys and installation of
                                                                                                                                   S/LTS          S/LTS              S/LTS
                                               exclusion fencing during the breeding season
Removal of heritage trees within the building On-Site Replacement at a minimum
                                                                                                                                   S/LTS        No Impact          No Impact
footprint                                      loss:replacement ratio of 1:1
                                                                             # of trees removed                                      2              0                  0
Potential construction impacts to trees within Installation of construction-period tree
                                                                                                                                   S/LTS          S/LTS              S/LTS
30 feet of the building footprint              protection zones
                                                                # of trees potentially disturbed                                    31             10                  10
Cultural Resources
Impacts related to demolition of historic
                                                                                                                                   S/SU         No Impact          No Impact
resources
Impacts to previously unidentified             Construction-period measures to identify and
                                                                                                                                   S/LTS          S/LTS              S/LTS
archaeological or paleontological resources avoid resources, as necessary.
Transportation and Parking
Level of Service impact at Watkins             Modifications to the existing intersection
                                                                                                                                    LTS           S/LTS              S/LTS
Avenue/Middlefield Road (PM Peak)              traffic controls
Inadequate existing parking supply             Provision of additional on- or off-site parking
                                                                                                                                   S/LTS        No Impact            S/LTS
                                               spaces
                                                     # of additional dedicated spaces required                                       2              0                  26
Notes:
SU = Significant and unavoidable
S = Significant
LTS = Less than significant
Source: LSA Associates, Inc., 2011




    P:\TOA1101 Atherton\PRODUCTS\Screening Analysis\Final Screening Analysis 07.06.11.doc (7/6/2011)                                                                           12
ATTACHMENT A
   FIGURES
                     Marin
                    County                       24

                                              BERKELEY
               SAN
          FRANCISCO                                              680

                                                                           580
                                                           HAYWARD
                            SAN MATEO                                       Project
                                                          880
                                                                            Locations
       PA
          C
         IF




                                        280
              IC




                                  ATHERTON
                   OC




                                        PALO ALTO
                                                                           SAN JOSE
                    EA
                        N




                                                           9

                                                                     LOS GATOS
                                    1
                                                                                   101


    REGIONAL LOCATION
                                                      9
                                                                17


                                                                                                                                 SITE C




                                                                                                            SITE B



                                                                                                   SITE A




                                                                                                                                          FIGURE 1



0              325               650                                              Potential Library Sites            Atherton Library Building Project
feet
                                                                                                                     Environmental Screening Analysis
                                                                                                                             Project Vicinity and
SOURCE: GOOGLE MAPS, 2011.                                                                                                     Regional Location
I:\TOA1101 atherton library\figures\Fig_1.ai (5/19/11)
                                                                                                                                                 ve
                                                                                                                                               sA
                                                                                                                                            rn
                                                                                                                                         Bu
                                                                                                                                                                                               SITE C




                                      CALTRAIN
                                       STATION
                                                  Di
                                                    nk                                                                                                                  SITE B           MAIN
                                                      el
                                                        sp                                                                                                                             RESIDENCE
                                                           i   el
                                                                                                                                                                                             WATER




                                                                                                                                                                    e
                                                                    St                                                                                                                       TOWER




                                                                                                                                                                 Av
                                                                       io
                                                                       at   n                     SITE A




                                                                                                                                                              ns
                                                                                Ln




                                                                                                                                                           tki
                                                              TOWN




                                                                                                                                                        Wa
                                                              HALL

                                                                                                                                                                                                    CARRIAGE
                   Ln




                                                                                                                Ra




                                                                                                                                                            k
                                                                                                                                                        ree
                                                                                                                   ilr                                             PAVILION                          HOUSE
                ks




                                                                                                                       oa
                                                         Rd




                                                                                                                                                     nC
                                                                                                                          d
             Oa




                                                                                                                              Tr
                                                   field




                                                                                                                                                 rto
                                                                                                                                 ac
             ir




                                                                                                                                    ks
          Fa




                                                                                                                                              he
                                               Ash




                                                                                                                                           At




                                                                                                                                                                                                Dr
                                                                                             e
                                                                                          Av




                                                                                                                                                                                               ton
                                                                                      ple




    El




                                                                                                                                                                                              Fel
         Ca
                                                                                                                  ve
                                                                                     Ma




            mi
                                                                                                                tA



               no
                                                                                                            lnu




                  Re
                     al
                                                                                                         Wa




                                                                                                                                                                                                      FIGURE 2


                                                                                                 Potential Library Sites
0          150          300                                                                      Holbrook-Palmer Park                                                            Atherton Library Building Project
feet                                                                                                                                                                             Environmental Screening Analysis
SOURCE: GOOGLE EARTH, 2009; LSA ASSOCIATES, INC., 2011.                                                                                                                                    Aerial Photograph
I:\TOA1101 atherton library\figures\Fig_2.ai (5/19/11)
                                                        Legend




                                                                                       FIGURE 3



0            60           120                                      Atherton Library Building Project
feet                                                               Environmental Screening Analysis
SOURCES: TOWN OF ATHERTON                                        Existing Library Site - Site A
I:\TOA1101 atherton library\figures\Fig_3.ai (6/9/11)
                                                                                     Legend




                                                                  Northern
                                                                  Parking
                                                                    Lot




                                                        Central
                                                        Parking
                                                          Lot




                         Civic Core Lot


                                                                                                            FIGURE 4


0             60            120                                                        Atherton Library Building Project
feet                                                                                   Environmental Screening Analysis
SOURCES: TOWN OF ATHERTON
                                                                    Holbrook-Palmer Park Main House Site - Site B
I:\TOA1101 atherton library\figures\Fig_4.ai (6/9/11)
                                                                                                    Legend




                                                                  Northern Parking
                                                                        Lot




                                                        Central

                                                         Lot




          Civic Core Lot



                                                                                                                             FIGURE 5



0            60            120
                                                                                                        Atherton Library Building Project
feet
                                                                                                        Environmental Screening Analysis
SOURCES: TOWN OF ATHERTON
                                                                                     Holbrook-Palmer Park Parking Lot Site - Site C
I:\TOA1101 atherton library\figures\Fig_5.ai (6/9/11)
ATTACHMENT B
  TREE MAPS
                                                                                                                            12,000 sqft




         Legend




                                                        . 30 foot buffer for protected tree analysis                                                           FIGURE A
                                                        . Protected coast live oak trees within footprint (to be removed)
                                                        . Protected coast live oak trees adjacent to site
                                                        . Protected valley oak tree adjacent to site                                        Atherton Library Building Project
                                                        . Protected carob tree adjacent to site
0            60           120
feet
                                                        . Protected coast redwood trees adjacent to site                                                           Tree Map
SOURCES: TOWN OF ATHERTON                                                                                                                 Existing Library Site - Site A
I:\TOA1101 atherton library\figures\Fig_A.ai (7/6/11)
                                                                                                                                                               Legend




                                                                                                                                    Northern
                                                                                                                                    Parking
                                                                                                                                      Lot




                                                                                                   Central
                                                                                                   Parking
                                                                                                     Lot




                         Civic Core Lot


                                                                                                                                                                                FIGURE B
                                                   . 30 foot buffer for protected tree analysis              . Protected glossy privet tree adjacent to site
                                                   . Protected coast live oak trees adjacent to site
                                                   . Protected bunya-bunya trees adjacent to site
0             60            120                    . Protected American elm tree adjacent to site                                                          Atherton Library Building Project
feet
                                                   . Protected southern magnolia tree adjacent to site                                                                            Tree Map
                                                   . Protected coast redwood trees adjacent to site                                     Holbrook-Palmer Park Main House Site - Site B
SOURCES: TOWN OF ATHERTON
I:\TOA1101 atherton library\figures\Fig_B.ai (7/5/11)
                                                                                                                                                Legend




                                                                                                              Northern Parking
                                                                                                                    Lot




                                                                                Central

                                                                                  Lot




          Civic Core Lot



                                                                                                                                                                         FIGURE C
                                                        .   30 foot buffer for protected tree analysis
                                                        .   Protected coast live oak trees adjacent to site
                                                        .   Protected white alder trees adjacent to site
0            60            120                          .   Protected American elm tree adjacent to site                                            Atherton Library Building Project
feet                                                    .   Protected Deodar cedar tree adjacent to site
                                                                                                                                                                           Tree Map
                                                        .   Protected Canary Island date palm tree adjacent to site
SOURCES: TOWN OF ATHERTON
                                                                                                                                 Holbrook-Palmer Park Parking Lot Site - Site C
I:\TOA1101 atherton library\figures\Fig_C.ai (7/5/11)
 ATTACHMENT C
TRAFFIC ANALYSIS
TRAFFIC ANALYSIS

LIBRARY SITE ALTERNATIVES

   T O W N O F A T H E R TO N




           June 2011
TRAFFIC ANALYSIS

LIBRARY SITE ALTERNATIVES

   T O W N O F A T H E R TO N




          Submitted to:
        Town of Atherton
        83 Ashfield Road
    Atherton, California 94027
         (650) 688-6500



           Prepared by:
        LSA Associates, Inc.
    20 Executive Park, Suite 200
   Irvine, California 92614-4731
           (949) 553-0666

    LSA Project No. TOA1101




            June 2011
                                                  TABLE OF CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION.................................................................................................................................. 1
PROJECT DESCRIPTION .................................................................................................................... 1
METHODOLOGY................................................................................................................................. 1
EXISTING CONDITIONS .................................................................................................................... 6
     Study Area ................................................................................................................................... 6
     Existing Circulation System......................................................................................................... 9
     Existing Level of Service............................................................................................................. 9
     Existing Parking Availability..................................................................................................... 11
PROJECT CONDITIONS.................................................................................................................... 12
     Trip Generation.......................................................................................................................... 12
     Trip Distribution and Assignment.............................................................................................. 13
     Parking Generation .................................................................................................................... 13
EXISTING PLUS PROJECT CONDITIONS...................................................................................... 14
     Intersection Operation................................................................................................................ 14
     Parking Conditions with Project Alternatives............................................................................ 16
SATURDAY ANALYSIS.................................................................................................................... 18
     Intersection Operation................................................................................................................ 18
     Parking ....................................................................................................................................... 19
MITIGATION ...................................................................................................................................... 22
SUMMARY ......................................................................................................................................... 22
     Alternative 1............................................................................................................................... 22
     Alternative 2............................................................................................................................... 22
     Alternative 3............................................................................................................................... 22
CONCLUSIONS .................................................................................................................................. 23


APPENDICES

A: TRAFFIC VOLUME COUNTS
B: LOS CALCULATION WORKSHEETS




P:\TOA1101\Traffic Report2.doc «06/16/11»                                                                                                             i
                                                FIGURES AND TABLES

FIGURES

Figure 1: Project Location...................................................................................................................... 2
Figure 2a: Alternative 1 Site Plan .......................................................................................................... 3
Figure 2b: Alternative 2 Site Plan .......................................................................................................... 4
Figure 2c: Alternative 3 Site Plan .......................................................................................................... 5
Figure 3: Study Area .............................................................................................................................. 7
Figure 4: Existing Intersection Geometrics............................................................................................ 8
Figure 5: Existing Traffic Volumes...................................................................................................... 10
Figure 6a: Existing Plus Alternative 1 Traffic Volumes ...................................................................... 15
Figure 6b: Existing Plus Alternative 2 or 3 Traffic Volumes............................................................... 17
Figure 7: Existing Saturday and Saturday Plus Alternative 2 or 3 Traffic Volume ............................. 20


TABLES

Table A: Intersection Level of Service Definitions................................................................................ 6
Table B: Existing Level of Service ...................................................................................................... 11
Table C: Existing Library Parking Availability ................................................................................... 11
Table D: Existing Holbrook-Palmer Park Weekday Parking Availability........................................... 12
Table E: Project Trip Generation ......................................................................................................... 13
Table F: Existing Plus Alternative 1 Level of Service ......................................................................... 14
Table G: Existing Plus Alternative 2 or 3 Level of Service ................................................................. 16
Table H: Parking Spaces Needed ......................................................................................................... 18
Table I: Project Saturday Trip Generation ........................................................................................... 19
Table J: Existing Saturday Plus Alternative 2 or 3 Level of Service ................................................... 19
Table K: Existing Holbrook-Palmer Park Saturday Parking Availability............................................ 21
Table L: Parking Spaces Needed.......................................................................................................... 21
Table M: Alternative 2 or 3 Level of Service After Mitigation ........... Error! Bookmark not defined.




P:\TOA1101\Traffic Report2.doc «06/16/11»                                                                                                          ii
LSA ASSOCIATES, INC.                                                                     TRAFFIC ANALYSIS
JUNE 2011                                                                       LIBRARY SITE ALTERNATIVES
                                                                            TOWN OF ATHERTON, CALIFORNIA




INTRODUCTION
The purpose of this traffic analysis is to identify the potential circulation and parking impacts
associated with the proposed expansion of the San Mateo County Library branch in the Town of
Atherton (Town). Expansion could occur at the existing library site or expansion could be achieved
by constructing a new facility within Holbrook-Palmer Park. Figure 1 shows the location of the
existing library and Holbrook-Palmer Park within the Town.

The traffic analysis for the proposed project compares existing traffic conditions to forecasted traffic
conditions at completion of the project for the three site alternatives. The analysis also includes an
evaluation of parking conditions at the existing library site and at Holbrook-Palmer Park and an
analysis of the project's impacts to parking.


PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Since 1968, the San Mateo County Library branch in the Town of Atherton has been located at 2
Dinkelspiel (Station) Lane. The current building provides 4,790 square feet (sf). A Library Needs
Assessment conducted in 2009-2010 revealed that the library needed to house a larger collection,
increase the number of seats available, increase the number of public computers available, provide
areas for library-related programs and events, and create zones for various uses and that the existing
facility was inadequate to effectively deliver those services.

The Atherton Library Building Steering Committee has identified three alternative locations for an
approximately 11,100 sf facility to replace the existing library. Because these are preliminary plans,
LSA conducted a conservative analysis for a facility up to 12,000 sf. The first alternative (Figure 2a)
is on the site of the existing library. Additional parking required by the library expansion would be
accommodated with on-street parking. The second alternative (Figure 2b) is located in Holbrook-
Palmer Park on the site of the Main House. Parking for this alternative would be accommodated in
existing park parking lots. The third alternative (Figure 2c) is also located in Holbrook-Palmer Park
and would replace an existing parking lot. To compensate for this lost parking lot, additional spaces
would be constructed adjacent to another existing lot within the park.


METHODOLOGY
Traffic conditions in the study area were assessed through the evaluation of peak-hour levels of
service (LOS) at critical intersections. The LOS concept qualitatively characterizes traffic conditions
associated with varying levels of traffic. A LOS determination is a measure of congestion, which is
the principal measure of roadway service.

The LOS definitions for signalized and unsignalized intersections are presented in Table A. These
range from LOS A, which indicates a free-flow condition, to LOS F, which indicates a congested
condition. The Town has established LOS C as the minimum acceptable LOS for intersections on
collector roadways and LOS D as the minimum acceptable LOS for intersections on arterial
roadways.




P:\TOA1101\Traffic Report2.doc «06/16/11»                                                                  1
                                       Dinkelspiel Station Lane

                                                                        Holbrook-Palmer Park

                                         Existing Library




                                                                                                     FIGURE 1
                                        Legend
                                                 Existing Library
                                                 Holbrook-Palmer Park


0      1,000      2,000 Feet
                                                                                                Atherton Library

SOURCE: Bing Maps, 2008
                                                                                               Project Location
I:\TOA1101\G\Location.ai (5/26/2011)
                                                  Legend




                                                                                FIGURE 2A


    N
0             60             120
                                                                             Atherton Library
FEET
SOURCE: Town of Atherton
                                                           Alternative 1 - Existing Site Plan
I:\TOA1101\G\Alt-1_Existing Site.ai (5/26/2011)
                                                                             Legend




                                                                  Northern
                                                                  Parking
                                                                    Lot




                                                        Central
                                                        Parking
                                                          Lot




                           Civic Core Lot



                                                                                                     FIGURE 2B


    N
                                                                                                  Atherton Library
0            60            120
FEET
                                                                             Alternative 2 - Holbrook-Palmer Park
SOURCE: Town of Atherton                                                                              Main House
I:\TOA1101\G\Alt-2_Holbrook_Main House.ai (5/26/2011)
                                                                                  Legend




                                                               Northern Parking
                                                                     Lot




                                                     Central

                                                      Lot




           Civic Core Lot



                                                                                                           FIGURE 2C


    N
                                                                                                        Atherton Library
0             60            120
FEET
                                                                                  Alternative 3 - Holbrook-Palmer Park
SOURCE: Town of Atherton                                                                                    Parking Lot
I:\TOA1101\G\Alt-3_Holbrook_Parking.ai (5/26/2011)
LSA ASSOCIATES, INC.                                                                     TRAFFIC ANALYSIS
JUNE 2011                                                                       LIBRARY SITE ALTERNATIVES
                                                                            TOWN OF ATHERTON, CALIFORNIA




Table A: Intersection Level of Service Definitions
                                        Average Control Delay
                                           (seconds/vehicle)
Level of                            Signalized        Unsignalized
Service        Description         Intersections      Intersections
  A      Little or no delay           < 10.0              < 10.0
   B     Short traffic delay     > 10.0 and < 20.0 > 10.0 and < 15.0
   C     Average traffic delay   >20.0 and < 35.0 > 15.0 and < 25.0
  D      Long traffic delay      > 35.0 and < 55.0 > 25.0 and < 35.0
   E     Very long traffic delay > 55.0 and < 80.0 > 35.0 and < 50.0
   F     Extreme traffic delay        > 80.0              > 50.0
Source: Highway Capacity Manual, Transportation Research Board, 2010.



The Menlo Park Transportation Impact Analysis Guidelines, used in this study at the direction of the
Town, establishes significance criteria to determine whether trips added to the circulation system by a
project will require mitigation. A project has a potentially significant impact if one of these conditions
applies:
·    An intersection operating at an acceptable LOS is caused to operate at an unacceptable LOS;
·    Delay is increased by 23 seconds or greater at an intersection operating at an acceptable LOS; or
·    Average delay to vehicles on the critical turn movements increases by greater than 0.8 seconds at
     an intersection operating at an unacceptable LOS.

It should be noted that each intersection in the study area, with the exception of one, is stop-controlled
in only one direction. In these cases, the LOS reported by the Highway Capacity Manual (HCM)
methodology is the stop-controlled direction, which is also the critical movement. As a result, both
the 23-second criterion and the 0.8-second criterion are applied to the intersection delay as a whole.
As stated in the project description, three alternative sites for the new library have been proposed.
Parking demand generated by the new library will be compared to parking supply for each alternative.
The alternative would be determined to have a significant parking impact if the alternative would
result in deficient parking at the proposed location.


EXISTING CONDITIONS
Study Area
The existing library is located at 2 Dinkelspiel (Station) Lane in the Town of Atherton. The Atherton
Caltrain station and parking lot is north of the existing library. Holbrook-Palmer Park is located east
of Watkins Avenue and north of the Caltrain corridor. Land uses surrounding the existing library and
park are primarily residential in nature. The intersections listed below (and depicted on Figure 3)
were identified by Town staff as intersections that could be significantly impacted by the proposed
project and have been included in the study area. All of the study intersections are currently
unsignalized. Intersection geometrics are illustrated on Figure 4.

·    Fair Oaks Lane/Dinkelspiel (Station) Lane
·    Watkins Avenue/Middlefield Road


P:\TOA1101\Traffic Report2.doc «06/16/11»                                                                6
                                                                                    2




                                          1
                                                                                3

                                                                            4


                                                                      5




                                                            6




                                                                                             FIGURE 3
                                         Legend
                                                  Existing Library
                                                  Holbrook-Palmer Park
                                           #      Study Area Intersection
0          500        1,000 Feet
                                                                                        Atherton Library

SOURCE: Bing Maps, 2008
                                                                                            Study Area
I:\TOA1101\G\Study Area.ai (5/26/2011)
                     u                                                                                               u




                                                                                                                              ae
                              g




                                                                                ac




                              d                                                 ae                                           d
                                                                   d




 1   Fair Oaks Lane/Dinkelspiel Station Lane        2   Watkins Avenue/Middlefield Road           3   Watkins Avenue/Holbrook-Palmer Park Exit



                                                                                                                              ccd

                     u                                                 w                                           z
                              ae




                              d                                                 b
                                                                   g




                                                                                                                 accc




 4   Watkins Avenue/Holbrook-Palmer Park Entrance   5   Watkins Avenue/Dinkelspiel Station Lane   6   Watkins Avenue/El Camino Real
                                                                                                                                      FIGURE 4

Legend                                                                                                                          Atherton Library
    Signal                                                                                                               Existing Geometrics
    Stop Sign
F   Free Right Turn

 P:\TOA1101\Existing Geometrics.xls 6/3/2011
LSA ASSOCIATES, INC.                                                                   TRAFFIC ANALYSIS
JUNE 2011                                                                     LIBRARY SITE ALTERNATIVES
                                                                          TOWN OF ATHERTON, CALIFORNIA




·    Watkins Avenue/Holbrook-Palmer Park Exit
·    Watkins Avenue/Holbrook-Palmer Park Entrance
·    Watkins Avenue/Dinkelspiel (Station) Lane
·    Watkins Avenue/El Camino Real


Existing Circulation System
Key roadways in the vicinity of the proposed project are as follows:

·    US Highway 101: US-101 is a north-south regional freeway, extending through the Bay Area to
     the City of San Francisco. In the vicinity of the project, US-101 consists of one high­occupancy
     vehicle (HOV) and four general purpose lanes in the northbound direction and one HOV lane and
     three general-purpose lanes in the southbound direction.
·    El Camino Real: El Camino Real is a six-lane arterial roadway traveling roughly parallel to US-
     101 through the Bay Area. The Town's General Plan Circulation Element classifies El Camino
     Real as a highway.
·    Middlefield Road: Middlefield Road is a north-south roadway. In the vicinity of the project,
     Middlefield Road consists of two undivided lanes. The Town's General Plan Circulation Element
     classifies Middlefield Road as a minor arterial.
·    Fair Oaks Lane: Fair Oaks Lane is an east-west roadway traveling between El Camino Real and
     Middlefield Road. Fair Oaks Lane provides access to the Atherton Caltrain station and consists of
     two undivided lanes. The Town's General Plan Circulation Element classifies Fair Oaks Lane as
     a collector.
·    Watkins Avenue: Watkins Avenue is a two-lane undivided east-west roadway traveling between
     El Camino Real and Middlefield Road. Watkins Avenue is parallel to and approximately 1,500
     feet (ft) east of Fair Oaks Lane. Holbrook-Palmer Park takes access from Watkins Avenue. The
     Town's General Plan Circulation Element classifies Watkins Avenue as a collector.
·    Dinkelspiel (Station) Lane: Dinkelspiel (Station) Lane is a two-lane local street traveling
     between Fair Oaks Lane and Watkins Avenue. Perpendicular and parallel parking for the
     Atherton Library is provided on Dinkelspiel (Station) Lane.
·    Marsh Road: Marsh Road is a two-lane east-west arterial that provides access between US-101
     and the study area where it terminates at Middlefield Road. The Town's General Plan Circulation
     Element classifies Marsh Road as a minor arterial.


Existing Level of Service
LSA Associates, Inc. (LSA) contracted a qualified company, All Traffic Data, to conduct intersection
turn movement counts at the six study area intersections. Traffic counts were collected during the AM
peak period (7:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m.) and the PM peak period (4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m.) on Wednesday,
May 25, 2011. Due to equipment malfunction, traffic counts were recounted for Fair Oaks
Lane/Dinkelspiel (Station) Lane on Thursday, May 26, 2011 (PM peak period), and Wednesday, June
1, 2011 (AM peak period). Existing traffic counts are illustrated on Figure 5. Existing count data are


P:\TOA1101\Traffic Report2.doc «06/16/11»                                                            9
                  314/203




                                                                                                                         107/100
                            16/19




                                                                                                                                   1/0
                                              15/25                                            570/879                                             16/25
                                              10/17                                            50/66                                               11/30
                                                                 740/723
                                    184/213
                                              18/14




                                                                                       64/39
                                                                                               52/36




                                                                                                                                          131/70
                                                                   50/44




 1   Fair Oaks Lane/Dinkelspiel Station Lane          2   Watkins Avenue/Middlefield Road                3   Watkins Avenue/Holbrook-Palmer Park Exit
                  99/115
                            24/18




                                                                       11/30
                                                                               99/87




                                                                                                                         54/72
                                                                                                                                   51/7




                                                                                                                                                   100/39
                                                                                                                                                   833/1765
                                                                    22/11                                            44/18
                                    135/72
                                              25/7




                                                                                       1/1
                                                                                               142/73




                                                                      3/4                                        1958/1214




 4   Watkins Avenue/Holbrook-Palmer Park Entrance     5   Watkins Avenue/Dinkelspiel Station Lane        6   Watkins Avenue/El Camino Real
                                                                                                                                                       FIGURE 5

123/456          AM/PM Volumes                                                                                                    Atherton Library
                                                                                                                   Existing Peak Hour Volumes


 P:\TOA1101\Existing Vol.xls (6/3/2011)
LSA ASSOCIATES, INC.                                                                               TRAFFIC ANALYSIS
JUNE 2011                                                                                 LIBRARY SITE ALTERNATIVES
                                                                                      TOWN OF ATHERTON, CALIFORNIA




included as Appendix A of this analysis. Table B presents the existing AM and PM peak-hour LOS
for the study area. LOS calculation worksheets are available in Appendix B of this analysis. Table B
displays the delay on the stop-controlled leg, which are the critical turn movements, of each
intersection.

Table B: Existing Level of Service

                                                           AM Peak Hour1       PM Peak Hour2
                                                            Delay               Delay
           Intersection (LOS Standard)                    (seconds) LOS       (seconds) LOS
1    Fair Oaks Lane/Dinkelspiel (Station) Lane (C)            2.9     A           2.4     A
2    Watkins Avenue/Middlefield Road (D)                     34.2     D          45.3     E
3    Watkins Avenue/Park Exit (C)                             9.3     A           9.7     A
4    Watkins Avenue/Park Entrance (C)                         7.6     A           7.4     A
5    Watkins Avenue/Dinkelspiel (Station) Lane (C)            9.9     A           9.3     A
6    Watkins Avenue/El Camino Real (D)                       59.6     F          29.9     D
1
    Highest volume hour between 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m.
2
    Highest volume hour between 4:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m.
LOS = level of service
    = exceeds LOS standard



As the table indicates, two intersections currently function at an unacceptable LOS. Watkins
Avenue/Middlefield Road operates at LOS E in the PM peak hour. Watkins Avenue/El Camino Real
operates at LOS F in the AM peak hour. Both intersections exceed LOS standards due to the
difficulty of turning left from a collector onto an uncontrolled arterial.


Existing Parking Availability
LSA also contracted All Traffic Data to collect parking accumulation counts at the existing library
and at Holbrook-Palmer Park. Parked vehicles were counted every hour between 10:00 a.m. and 8:00
p.m. on Wednesday, May 25, 2011. The resulting counts are displayed on Tables C and D below.

Table C: Existing Library Parking Availability

                                                   Vehicles Parked
                                                East Side of Dinkelspiel   West Side of Dinkelspiel    Total
                 Perpendicular to Street            (Station) Lane             (Station) Lane         Available
                      (12 Spaces)                      (5 Spaces)                (16 Spaces)            (33)
10:00 a.m.                 3                               3                          2                  25
11:00 a.m.                 4                               4                          2                  23
12:00 p.m.                 3                               3                          3                  24
1:00 p.m.                  2                               2                          5                  24
2:00 p.m.                  5                               3                          4                  21
3:00 p.m.                  5                               3                          6                  19
4:00 p.m.                  5                               3                          1                  24
5:00 p.m.                  3                               1                          1                  28
6:00 p.m.                  4                               0                          5                  24
7:00 p.m.                  4                               0                          2                  27
8:00 p.m.                  4                               0                          2                  27




P:\TOA1101\Traffic Report2.doc «06/16/11»                                                                         11
LSA ASSOCIATES, INC.                                                                    TRAFFIC ANALYSIS
JUNE 2011                                                                      LIBRARY SITE ALTERNATIVES
                                                                           TOWN OF ATHERTON, CALIFORNIA




Table D: Existing Holbrook-Palmer Park Weekday Parking Availability

                                            Vehicles Parked                                 Total
                       Northern Lot          Central Lot             Civic Core Lot        Available
                        (58 Spaces)          (22 Spaces)              (44 Spaces)           (124)
10:00 a.m.                   3                    18                       10                 93
11:00 a.m.                   2                    17                       11                 94
12:00 p.m.                    2                   17                       24                 81
1:00 p.m.                     4                   20                       25                 75
2:00 p.m.                     4                   19                        4                 97
3:00 p.m.                     7                   20                        9                 88
4:00 p.m.                    11                    4                        6                103
5:00 p.m.                    14                    2                        4                104
6:00 p.m.                    11                    5                       15                 93
7:00 p.m.                    11                   15                       38                 60
8:00 p.m.                    10                   13                       26                 75



Table C displays parking utilized and available at the existing Atherton Library. Figure 2a illustrates
currently available parking. Currently, 11 standard and 1 handicapped parking space are adjacent to
the library and perpendicular to Dinkelspiel (Station) Lane. An additional five marked stalls are
located on the east side of Dinkelspiel (Station) Lane in parallel spaces provided beyond the curb.
Curbside parking is available on the west side of Dinkelspiel (Station) Lane and Ashfield Road for
approximately sixteen additional vehicles. In total, 33 parking spaces are provided for Atherton
Library. As shown in Table C, parking utilization is highest during the 3:00 p.m. hour. At this time,
14 parking spaces are utilized and 19 are available.

Table D displays parking utilized and available at Holbrook-Palmer Park. Figure 2b illustrates
currently available parking areas. Currently, 58 spaces are available in the Northern Lot, 22 spaces
(21 standard and 1 handicapped) are available in the Central Lot, and 44 spaces (35 standard, 3
handicapped, and 6 limited to 15 minutes) are available in the Civic Core Lot. In total, 124 parking
spaces are provided at Holbrook-Palmer Park. As shown in Table D, parking utilization at Holbrook-
Palmer Park is highest during the 7:00 p.m. hour. At this time, 64 parking spaces are utilized and 60
are available. It should be noted that the Northern Lot was not observed to be greater than 25 percent
full at any time throughout the day.


PROJECT CONDITIONS
Trip Generation
The proposed project would construct a new 12,000 sf library in one of three locations. The daily and
peak-hour trips for the project are generated using trip rates documented in the Institute of
Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation Manual (Eighth Edition, 2008). The trip rates for
"Land Use 590: Library" were used to calculate the net new trips generated by the proposed project.

As Table E indicates, the proposed 12,000 sf library is forecast to generate approximately 675 trips
per day, 12 trips in the AM peak hour, and 88 trips in the PM peak hour. Alternative 1 would replace
an existing library that generates approximately 269 trips per day, 5 trips in the AM peak hour, and 35
trips in the PM peak hour. As a result, new trips utilizing the circulation system for Alternative 1


P:\TOA1101\Traffic Report2.doc «06/16/11»                                                              12
LSA ASSOCIATES, INC.                                                                               TRAFFIC ANALYSIS
JUNE 2011                                                                                 LIBRARY SITE ALTERNATIVES
                                                                                      TOWN OF ATHERTON, CALIFORNIA




Table E: Project Trip Generation

  Land Use (ITE Land                                          AM Peak Hour               PM Peak Hour
        Use Code)                 Size      Unit   ADT      In    Out   Total           In   Out Total
Trip Rates1
Library (590)                               TSF    56.24   0.74     0.30      1.04     3.50    3.80     7.30
Trip Generation
Existing Library (590)            4.79      TSF    269      4         1        5        17      18       35
New Library (590)                  12       TSF    675      9         4        12       42      46       88
Alternative 12
Net New Trip Generation                            405      5         2        7        25      27       53
Alternatives 2 and 33
New Trip Generation                                675      9         4        12       42      46       88
1
   Trip Rates referenced from the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation Manual, Eighth
   Edition (2008).
2
   Trip Generation of Alternative 1 is the increase between the existing library and the expanded library.
3
   Trip Generation of Alternatives 2 and 3 is the full new library.
ADT = Average daily traffic
TSF = Thousand square feet



(replacement of the library on the existing site) are forecast to be 405 trips per day, 7 trips in the AM
peak hour, and 53 trips in the PM peak hour.

In Alternative 2, the new library would replace the Main House in Holbrook-Palmer Park. The Main
House, however, does not generate regular, predictable trips on a daily basis. Therefore, no credit was
taken for trips being replaced by the new library. In Alternative 3, the new library would be placed on
an existing parking lot in Holbrook-Palmer Park and an informal amphitheater would replace the
Main House. The replacement of the Main House with an amphitheater is not a part of the library
project. At this time, the potential use of the amphitheater is unknown and was not accounted for in
this analysis. Because Alternatives 2 and 3 would construct a new facility on a new site, no credits
have been taken for the existing library in these alternatives.


Trip Distribution and Assignment
New trips generated by the project were evenly distributed between east toward US-101, south toward
Palo Alto, west within the Town of Atherton, and north toward Redwood City. Where multiple routes
to the ultimate destination are available, the shortest route was used for project trips. This is a
reasonable presumption; however, it should be noted that motorists making routine trips will avoid
congested intersections and routes in favor of faster routes.


Parking Generation
Data regarding the parking generation characteristics of land uses are available in ITE Parking
Generation (Fourth Edition, 2010). ITE surveys showed that the peak period for "Land Use 590:
Library" is 3:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. and that average peak-parking demand is 2.61 vehicles per 1,000 sf
of gross floor area. The project proposes a 12,000 sf facility, which would generate demand for 31
parking spaces.


P:\TOA1101\Traffic Report2.doc «06/16/11»                                                                       13
LSA ASSOCIATES, INC.                                                                                  TRAFFIC ANALYSIS
JUNE 2011                                                                                    LIBRARY SITE ALTERNATIVES
                                                                                         TOWN OF ATHERTON, CALIFORNIA




LSA also collected parking data at the existing library. The highest parking demand (during the 3:00
p.m. to 4:00 p.m. hour) was 14 vehicles. Since the existing library is 4,790 sf, this parking demand
equated to a rate of 2.92 spaces per 1,000 sf. If this relationship continues for the new 12,000 sf
library, a parking demand of 35 parking spaces is expected. Because the parking demand estimate
calculated from data collected at the existing library was higher, LSA applied this more conservative
estimate to the parking analysis.


EXISTING PLUS PROJECT CONDITIONS
Intersection Operation
Project traffic resulting from Alternative 1 was added to existing traffic counts and the resulting turn
movement volumes are illustrated on Figure 6a. LOS for the Existing Plus Alternative 1 condition at
the six study area intersections were calculated. The existing LOS was then compared to the Existing
Plus Alternative 1 LOS to determine (1) project impacts and (2) whether those impacts are considered
significant. Table F displays the results of that analysis. Again, because all six study area intersections
are two-way stop controlled, the delay displayed is the average for all turn movements of the most
delayed approach.

    Table F: Existing Plus Alternative 1 Level of Service

                                                                    Existing                    Existing Plus Project
                                                            AM Peak          PM Peak        AM Peak            PM Peak
                                                              Hour1            Hour2           Hour1             Hour2
           Intersection (LOS Standard)                    Delay    LOS    Delay    LOS    Delay     LOS      Delay    LOS
1     Fair Oaks Lane/Dinkelspiel (Station) Lane            2.9      A       2.4      A     2.9        A       2.6      A
      (C)
2     Watkins Avenue/Middlefield Road (D)                 34.2     D      45.3     E       34.3     D       44.7     E
3     Watkins Avenue/Park Exit (C)                        9.3      A      9.7      A       9.3      A       9.8      A
4     Watkins Avenue/Park Entrance (C)                     7.6     A      7.4      A       7.6      A       7.4      A
5     Watkins Avenue/Dinkelspiel (Station) Lane            9.9     A      9.3      A       9.9      A       9.4      A
      (C)
6     Watkins Avenue/El Camino Real (D)                   59.6     F      29.9     D       59.8      F      30.2     D
1
    Highest volume hour between 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m.
2
    Highest volume hour between 4:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m.
LOS = level of service
    = exceeds LOS standard
    = significant impact



The additional trips generated by Alternative 1 would slightly increase delay at some of the study
intersections during the peak periods. Average delay decreases at Watkins Avenue/Middlefield Road
due to additional eastbound right-turn movements added by Alternative 1. Right-turns are facilitated
with little delay thereby decreasing average delay across the approach. No intersections operating at
an acceptable LOS would operate at an unacceptable LOS due to the addition of Alternative 1 traffic.
Nor does Alternative 1 add 28 seconds of delay to any intersections operating at an acceptable LOS.
Finally, Alternative 1 would not increase delay by greater than 0.8 seconds at either intersection
operating at an unacceptable LOS. Therefore, based on the traffic impact significance criteria
described in this report, Alternative 1 would not result in significant adverse impacts.


P:\TOA1101\Traffic Report2.doc «06/16/11»                                                                           14
                  314/203




                                                                                                                                            108/104
                            18/28




                                              16/36                                            570/879                                                          16/25
                                              11/29                                            51/70                                                            11/30
                                                                 740/723
                                    184/213
                                              19/22




                                                                                       64/39
                                                                                               52/40




                                                                                                                                                      131/174
                                                                   50/44




 1   Fair Oaks Lane/Dinkelspiel Station Lane          2   Watkins Avenue/Middlefield Road                           3   Watkins Avenue/Holbrook-Palmer Park Exit
                  100/119
                            24/18




                                                                       12/34
                                                                               99/87




                                                                                                                                    54/72
                                                                                                                                            51/7




                                                                                                                                                                100/39
                                                                                                                                                                834/1769
                                                                    22/15                                                       44/18
                                    135/76
                                              25/7




                                                                                       1/1
                                                                                               142/73




                                                                      3/4                                                   1959/1218




 4   Watkins Avenue/Holbrook-Palmer Park Entrance     5   Watkins Avenue/Dinkelspiel Station Lane                   6   Watkins Avenue/El Camino Real
                                                                                                                                                                   FIGURE 6a

123/456          AM/PM Volumes                                                                                                            Atherton Library
                                                                                                        Existing Plus Alternative 1 Peak Hour Volumes


 P:\TOA1101\Alt 1 Vol.xls (6/3/2011)
LSA ASSOCIATES, INC.                                                                                TRAFFIC ANALYSIS
JUNE 2011                                                                                  LIBRARY SITE ALTERNATIVES
                                                                                       TOWN OF ATHERTON, CALIFORNIA




Project traffic resulting from Alternative 2 or 3 was added to existing traffic counts and the resulting
turn movement volumes are illustrated on Figure 6b. LOS for the Existing Plus Alternative 2 or 3
condition at the six study area intersections were calculated. The existing LOS was then compared to
the Existing Plus Alternative 2 or 3 LOS to determine (1) project impacts and (2) whether those
impacts are considered significant. Table G displays the results of that analysis.

    Table G: Existing Plus Alternative 2 or 3 Level of Service

                                                                    Existing                    Existing Plus Project
                                                            AM Peak          PM Peak        AM Peak            PM Peak
                                                              Hour1            Hour2           Hour1             Hour2
             Intersection (LOS Standard)                  Delay    LOS    Delay    LOS    Delay     LOS      Delay    LOS
    1   Fair Oaks Lane/Dinkelspiel (Station) Lane (C)      2.9      A       2.4      A     2.9        A       2.4      A
    2   Watkins Avenue/Middlefield Road (D)               34.2      D      45.3      E    34.8        D       57.7     F
    3   Watkins Avenue/Park Exit (C)                       9.3      A       9.7      A     9.4        A       10.0     A
    4   Watkins Avenue/Park Entrance (C)                   7.6      A       7.4      A     7.6        A       7.5      A
    5   Watkins Avenue/Dinkelspiel (Station) Lane          9.9      A       9.3      A     9.9        A       9.5      A
        (C)
    6   Watkins Avenue/El Camino Real (D)                 59.6     F      29.9     D       60.4      F      30.5        D
1
    Highest volume hour between 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m.
2
    Highest volume hour between 4:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m.
LOS = level of service
    = exceeds LOS standard
    = significant impact



Alternative 2 or 3 does not add 28 seconds of delay to any intersections operating at an acceptable
LOS. However, Alternative 2 or 3 would increase delay of the critical turn movements by greater than
0.8 seconds at one intersection currently operating at an unacceptable LOS. Therefore, based on the
Town's traffic impact significance criteria described in this report, Alternative 2 or 3 would result in a
significant adverse impact at the following location:
·       Watkins Avenue/Middlefield Road (PM peak hour)

It should be noted that an 11,100 sf library would also result in this significant adverse impact.


Parking Conditions with Project Alternatives
As described previously, the time period of highest parking demand for a library is 3:00 p.m. to 4:00
p.m. This was determined at sites surveyed for ITE Parking Generation (Fourth Edition, 2010) and
confirmed at the existing library. The period of highest parking demand at Holbrook-Palmer Park,
however, is between 7:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m. In order to provide a complete analysis of potential
parking impacts to Holbrook-Palmer Park, both time periods are analyzed in Table H.

Surveys at the existing library found that parking demand during the 7:00 p.m. hour was
approximately 43 percent of peak 3:00 p.m. demand. This is, however, much lower than other surveys
conducted by ITE. In order to provide a conservative analysis, a higher, 75 percent of peak-parking
rate was chosen to represent parking demand during the 7:00 p.m. hour.




P:\TOA1101\Traffic Report2.doc «06/16/11»                                                                          16
                  314/203




                                                                                                                                          111/121
                            16/19




                                              15/25                                              570/879                                                      18/48
                                              10/17                                              52/76                                                        13/53
                                                                 740/723
                                    184/213
                                              18/14




                                                                                         65/51
                                                                                                 53/47




                                                                                                                                                    131/170
                                                                   52/55




 1   Fair Oaks Lane/Dinkelspiel Station Lane          2   Watkins Avenue/Middlefield Road                         3   Watkins Avenue/Holbrook-Palmer Park Exit
                  101/138




                                                                               101/110
                            28/39




                                                                       11/30




                                                                                                                                  56/95
                                                                                                                                          51/7




                                                                                                                                                              103/50
                                                                                                                                                              833/1765
                                                                    22/11                                                     46/28
                                    135/72
                                              30/28




                                                                                         1/1
                                                                                                 147/94




                                                                      3/4                                                 1958/1219




 4   Watkins Avenue/Holbrook-Palmer Park Entrance     5   Watkins Avenue/Dinkelspiel Station Lane                 6   Watkins Avenue/El Camino Real
                                                                                                                                                                 FIGURE 6b

123/456          AM/PM Volumes                                                                                                          Atherton Library
                                                                                                 Existing Plus Alternative 2 or 3 Peak Hour Volumes


 P:\TOA1101\Alt 2-3 Vol.xls (6/16/2011)
LSA ASSOCIATES, INC.                                                                         TRAFFIC ANALYSIS
JUNE 2011                                                                           LIBRARY SITE ALTERNATIVES
                                                                                TOWN OF ATHERTON, CALIFORNIA




Table H: Parking Spaces Needed

                        Spaces                        Additional
                       Available             Spaces    Parking     Parking Surplus
                        at Site             Removed    Demand       or (Shortage)
Alternative 1
   3:00 p.m.               19                  0         21              (2)
   7:00 p.m.               27                  0         12              15
Alternative 2
   3:00 p.m.               88                  0         35              53
   7:00 p.m.               60                  0         26              34
Alternative 3
   3:00 p.m.               88                 58         35              (5)
   7:00 p.m.               60                 58         26             (24)



As Table H shows, Alternative 1 (expansion of the existing library site) would require 2 additional
parking spaces. Sufficient space is available on the east side of Dinkelspiel (Station) Lane to expand
the 5 parallel parking spaces to 7. This would satisfy additional parking demand.

Alternative 2 (replacing Main House in Holbrook-Palmer Park with a new library) would not require
any additional parking spaces. Sufficient unutilized parking currently exists in the park during both
peak-library parking demand and peak-park parking demand to absorb the increased parking demand
generated by the new library.

Alternative 3 (placing the new library on the Northern Lot in Holbrook-Palmer Park) would require
24 additional parking spaces to accommodate total park demand during the 7:00 p.m. hour. Figure 2c
illustrates plans to add additional parking adjacent to the Central Lot. According to the Urban Land
Institute Dimensions of Parking, Fourth Edition, 270 to 300 sf per parking space is a reasonable
estimate for a surface parking lot. By this estimate, approximately 7,200 sf of currently green space
would need to be used for parking under this alternative.


SATURDAY ANALYSIS
Holbrook-Palmer Park is a popular location on weekends for events and recreation. As such, the
Town requested that conditions without and with the project be analyzed for a typical Saturday. The
purpose of this analysis is to determine whether Holbrook-Palmer Park's driveways or parking lots
would be more severely impacted on Saturday than they would be on a weekday.


Intersection Operation
In addition to intersection turn movement counts collected at all study area intersections during AM
and PM peak periods on a weekday, turn movement counts were collected at the park driveways
between 11:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. on Saturday, May 21, 2011. These counts are displayed on Figure
7. Project trips were determined using ITE Trip Generation Manual (Eighth Edition, 2008) Saturday
trip generation rates. Table I presents the project trips anticipated on a Saturday.



P:\TOA1101\Traffic Report2.doc «06/16/11»                                                                 18
LSA ASSOCIATES, INC.                                                                              TRAFFIC ANALYSIS
JUNE 2011                                                                                LIBRARY SITE ALTERNATIVES
                                                                                     TOWN OF ATHERTON, CALIFORNIA




 Table I: Project Saturday Trip Generation

   Land Use (ITE                                             Midday Peak Hour
   Land Use Code)              Size         Unit   ADT       In   Out    Total
Trip Rates1
Library (590)                               TSF    46.55    3.58   3.17     6.75
Trip Generation
New Library (590)               12          TSF    559       43    38        81
Alternatives 2 and 32
New Trip Generation                                675       43    38        81
 1
    Trip Rates referenced from the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE)
    Trip Generation Manual, Eighth Edition (2008).
 2
    Trip Generation of Alternatives 2 and 3 is the full new library.
 ADT = Average daily traffic
 TSF = Thousand square feet



Similar to the weekday analysis, project trips were distributed evenly eastbound and westbound at the
park driveways. The resulting traffic volumes with the project are illustrated on Figure 7. Table J
displays Saturday midday LOS without and with the project. As the table shows, no impacts to the
park driveways are anticipated on Saturday as a result of the project.

Table J: Existing Saturday Plus Alternative 2 or 3 Level of Service

                                                             Saturday        Saturday Plus
                                                             Midday1             Project
        Intersection (LOS Standard)                        Delay   LOS      Delay       LOS
3     Watkins Avenue/Park Exit (C)                          9.1     A        9.2         A
4     Watkins Avenue/Park Entrance (C)                      7.4     A        7.5         A
 1
    Highest volume hour between 11:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m.
 LOS = level of service



Parking
All Traffic Data collected parking accumulation counts at Holbrook-Palmer Park between the hours
of 10:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on Saturday, May 21, 2011. The result of that survey is provided on
Table K. Unlike the surveyed weekday, the highest parking demand occurred in the morning at 10:00
a.m. At that time, 75 spaces were utilized and 49 were available. LSA consulted the schedule of
events for Holbrook-Palmer Park. Weddings are occasionally held at the park, but none occurred on
the surveyed day. The survey results are believed to represent a typical Saturday at the park. It should
be noted that fewer than 40 percent of the Northern Lot was utilized during this typical Saturday.

ITE Parking Generation (Fourth Edition, 2010) provides limited data regarding weekend parking
demand for libraries. The sites that were surveyed on a weekday, Saturday, and Sunday revealed
parking rates that were 71 percent of weekday demand on Saturday and 87 percent of weekday
demand on Sunday. LSA used the more conservative 87 percent figure to determine weekend peak
parking demand for the library of 30 vehicles.




P:\TOA1101\Traffic Report2.doc «06/16/11»                                                                      19
                                                               Existing Saturday                    Existing Saturday Plus Alternative 2 or 3
                                                                       79




                                                                                                                          79
                                                                                 38                                                 57
                                                                                 47                                                 66
                                                                            62




                                                                                                                               62
                                                 3   Watkins Avenue/Holbrook-Palmer Park Exit       3   Watkins Avenue/Holbrook-Palmer Park Exit
                                                                 108




                                                                                                                    108
                                                                       20




                                                                                                                          42
                                                                            67
                                                                                 18




                                                                                                                               67
                                                                                                                                    39




                                                 4   Watkins Avenue/Holbrook-Palmer Park Entrance   4   Watkins Avenue/Holbrook-Palmer Park Entrance
                                                                                                                                         FIGURE 7

1234           Midday Volumes                                                                               Atherton Library
                                        Existing Saturday and Saturday Plus Alternative 2 or 3 Midday Peak Hour Volumes


 P:\TOA1101\Alt 2-3 Sat Vol.xls (6/3/2011)
LSA ASSOCIATES, INC.                                                                           TRAFFIC ANALYSIS
JUNE 2011                                                                             LIBRARY SITE ALTERNATIVES
                                                                                  TOWN OF ATHERTON, CALIFORNIA




Table K: Existing Holbrook-Palmer Park Saturday Parking Availability

                                                   Vehicles Parked                              Total
                      Northern Lot                  Central Lot         Civic Core Lot         Available
                       (58 Spaces)                   (22 Spaces)         (44 Spaces)            (124)
10:00 a.m.                  19                            15                  41                  49
11:00 a.m.                  12                            14                  41                  57
12:00 p.m.                   5                            18                  26                  75
1:00 p.m.                    4                             3                  29                  88
2:00 p.m.                   16                            11                  11                  86
3:00 p.m.                   21                            11                   6                  86
4:00 p.m.                   15                            4                    5                 100
5:00 p.m.                    9                             0                   6                 109



While weekend peak-parking demand is lower than weekday peak-parking demand for the library,
total parking demand was higher during much of surveyed weekend for Holbrook-Palmer Park. An
analysis of potential impacts to Holbrook-Palmer Park was conducted to determine if the library
weekend parking demand would exceed the park's available weekend parking. The highest parking
demand at the park (10:00 a.m.) is not the highest hour for parking at the library. Both ITE Parking
Generation (Fourth Edition, 2010) and surveys of the existing library found parking demand at 10:00
a.m. to be approximately 57 percent of peak-parking demand or 17 spaces.

As Table L shows, Alternative 2 (replacing Main House in Holbrook-Palmer Park with a new library)
would not require any additional parking spaces to accommodate weekend parking demand.
Alternative 3 (placing the new library on the Northern Lot in Holbrook-Palmer Park) would require
26 additional parking spaces to accommodate total park demand during the 10:00 a.m. hour. This is
greater than the number of parking spaces required for weekday parking. Based on the estimate of
270 to 300 sf per parking space provided earlier, approximately 7,800 sf of currently green space
would need to be used for parking under Alternative 3.

Table L: Parking Spaces Needed

                         Spaces                            Additional    Parking
                        Available            Spaces         Parking     Surplus or
                         at Site            Removed         Demand      (Shortage)
Alternative 2
 10:00 a.m.                  49                0                17           32
 3:00 p.m.                   86                0                30           56
Alternative 3
 10:00 a.m.                  49               58                17          (26)
 3:00 p.m.                   86               58                30           (2)




P:\TOA1101\Traffic Report2.doc «06/16/11»                                                                   21
                                                                                   All Traffic Data
                                                                                            (916) 771-8700
CITY OF ATHERTON                                                                                                     File Name      : 11-7239-001 FAIR OAKS-DINKELSPIEL AM
                                                                                                                     Site Code      : 00000000
                                                                                                                     Start Date     : 6/1/2011
                                                                                                                     Page No        :1


                                                                                    Groups Printed- Unshifted
                                  FAIR OAKS LANE                    DINKELSPIEL (STATION) LANE                   FAIR OAKS LANE               DINKELSPIEL (STATION) LANE
                                   Southbound                             Westbound                                Northbound                        Eastbound
         Start Time       Left     Thru    Right App. Total         Left  Thru     Right App. Total       Left     Thru    Right App. Total   Left  Thru     Right App. Total   Int. Total
              07:00         6        46       0         52            3      0        1            4         0       25        6        31      0      0        0           0          87
              07:15         6        54       0         60            8      0        0            8         0       33        2        35      0      0        0           0         103
              07:30         5        87       0         92            1      0        3            4         0       40        1        41      0      0        0           0         137
              07:45         5        82       0         87            1      0        3            4         0       49        1        50      0      0        0           0         141
               Total       22       269       0        291           13      0        7           20         0      147       10       157      0      0        0           0         468

              08:00          6        78          0           84      3        0        4           7        0      39         5        44      0       0        0          0        135
              08:15          1        75          0           76      3        0        1           4        0      53         6        59      0       0        0          0        139
              08:30          4        79          0           83      3        0        7          10        0      43         6        49      0       0        0          0        142
              08:45          2        51          0           53      6        0        1           7        0      41         1        42      0       0        0          0        102
               Total        13       283          0          296     15        0       13          28        0     176        18       194      0       0        0          0        518

        Grand Total         35       552          0          587      28       0       20          48        0      323       28       351      0       0        0          0        986
         Apprch %            6        94          0                 58.3       0     41.7                    0       92        8                0       0        0
            Total %        3.5        56          0         59.5     2.8       0        2         4.9        0     32.8      2.8       35.6     0       0        0          0




                                    FAIR OAKS LANE                  DINKELSPIEL (STATION) LANE                   FAIR OAKS LANE               DINKELSPIEL (STATION) LANE
                                      Southbound                          Westbound                                Northbound                        Eastbound
         Start Time         Left      Thru       Right App. Total   Left  Thru     Right App. Total       Left     Thru    Right App. Total   Left  Thru     Right App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 to 08:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45
              07:45            5        82           0         87      1       0        3          4         0       49         1       50       0       0       0          0        141
              08:00            6        78           0         84      3       0        4          7         0       39         5       44       0       0       0          0        135
              08:15            1        75           0         76      3       0        1          4         0       53         6       59       0       0       0          0        139
              08:30            4        79           0         83      3       0        7         10         0       43         6       49       0       0       0          0        142
      Total Volume            16       314           0        330     10       0       15         25         0      184        18      202       0       0       0          0        557
      % App. Total           4.8      95.2           0                40       0       60                    0     91.1       8.9                0       0       0
                PHF        .667       .957        .000       .948   .833    .000     .536        .625     .000     .868     .750       .856   .000    .000    .000       .000       .981
                                                                                   All Traffic Data
                                                                                            (916) 771-8700
CITY OF ATHERTON                                                                                                          File Name      : 11-7239-001 FAIR OAKS-DINKELSPIEL
                                                                                                                          Site Code      : 00000000
                                                                                                                          Start Date     : 5/26/2011
                                                                                                                          Page No        :1


                                                                                    Groups Printed- Unshifted
                                  FAIR OAKS LANE                    DINKELSPIEL (STATION) LANE                   FAIR OAKS LANE
                                   Southbound                             Westbound                                Northbound                         Eastbound
         Start Time       Left     Thru    Right App. Total         Left  Thru     Right App. Total       Left     Thru    Right App. Total   Left   Thru     Right   App. Total   Int. Total
              16:00         9        52       0         61            6      0        7           13         0       69        5        74      0       0        0             0         148
              16:15         5        51       0         56            8      0       14           22         0       44        3        47      0       0        0             0         125
              16:30         3        50       0         53            1      0        2            3         0       55        3        58      0       0        0             0         114
              16:45         2        50       0         52            2      0        2            4         0       45        3        48      0       0        0             0         104
               Total       19       203       0        222           17      0       25           42         0      213       14       227      0       0        0             0         491

              17:00          1        56          0           57      5        0        6          11        0      50         4        54      0       0        0             0        122
              17:15          5        59          0           64      4        0        5           9        0      45         2        47      0       0        0             0        120
              17:30          9        63          0           72      3        0        2           5        0      46         1        47      0       0        0             0        124
              17:45          2        54          0           56      3        0        3           6        0      37         2        39      0       0        0             0        101
               Total        17       232          0          249     15        0       16          31        0     178         9       187      0       0        0             0        467

        Grand Total         36       435          0          471      32       0       41          73        0      391       23       414      0       0        0             0        958
         Apprch %          7.6      92.4          0                 43.8       0     56.2                    0     94.4      5.6                0       0        0
            Total %        3.8      45.4          0         49.2     3.3       0      4.3         7.6        0     40.8      2.4       43.2     0       0        0             0




                                    FAIR OAKS LANE                  DINKELSPIEL (STATION) LANE                   FAIR OAKS LANE
                                      Southbound                          Westbound                                Northbound                         Eastbound
         Start Time         Left      Thru       Right App. Total   Left  Thru     Right App. Total       Left     Thru    Right App. Total   Left   Thru     Right   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 16:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:00
              16:00            9        52           0         61      6       0        7         13         0       69         5       74       0      0        0             0        148
              16:15            5        51           0         56      8       0       14         22         0       44         3       47       0      0        0             0        125
              16:30            3        50           0         53      1       0        2          3         0       55         3       58       0      0        0             0        114
              16:45            2        50           0         52      2       0        2          4         0       45         3       48       0      0        0             0        104
      Total Volume            19       203           0        222     17       0       25         42         0      213        14      227       0      0        0             0        491
      % App. Total           8.6      91.4           0              40.5       0     59.5                    0     93.8       6.2                0      0        0
                PHF        .528       .976        .000       .910   .531    .000     .446        .477     .000     .772     .700       .767   .000   .000     .000         .000        .829
                                                                     All Traffic Data
                                                                              (916) 771-8700
CITY OF ATHERTON                                                                                              File Name     : 11-7239-003 WATKINS-MIDDLEFIELD
                                                                                                              Site Code     : 00000000
                                                                                                              Start Date    : 5/25/2011
                                                                                                              Page No       :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Unshifted
                                                             MIDDLEFIELD RD.                        WATKINS AVE.                       MIDDLEFIELD RD.
                         Southbound                            Westbound                             Northbound                           Eastbound
    Start Time    Left   Thru    Right   App. Total   Left     Thru   Right App. Total     Left      Thru    Right App. Total   Left     Thru    Right App. Total   Int. Total
        07:00       0       0       0            0      2        54      0          56        4         0       5          9      0       119      11        130          195
        07:15       0       0       0            0      9        85      0          94      11          0       4         15      0       190      15        205          314
        07:30       0       0       0            0     18       100      0        118       16          0       7         23      0       182      21        203          344
        07:45       0       0       0            0      8       110      0        118       16          0      29         45      0       239      12        251          414
          Total     0       0       0            0     37       349      0        386       47          0      45         92      0       730      59        789        1267

        08:00       0      0        0            0     14      127        0        141         21      0       11         32      0      184       18        202        375
        08:15       0      0        0            0     17      134        0        151         15      0       10         25      0      154       13        167        343
        08:30       0      0        0            0     10      157        0        167         17      0       13         30      0      181       10        191        388
        08:45       0      0        0            0      9      152        0        161         11      0       18         29      0      221        9        230        420
         Total      0      0        0            0     50      570        0        620         64      0       52        116      0      740       50        790       1526




        16:00       0      0        0            0     16      195        0        211         16      0       12         28      0      143       15        158        397
        16:15       0      0        0            0      8      221        0        229         10      0       14         24      0      160       10        170        423
        16:30       0      0        0            0     14      235        0        249          9      0       11         20      0      160        4        164        433
        16:45       0      0        0            0     23      238        0        261         13      0        9         22      0      169       15        184        467
         Total      0      0        0            0     61      889        0        950         48      0       46         94      0      632       44        676       1720

        17:00       0      0        0            0     16      221        0        237         11      0        8         19      0      181       10        191        447
        17:15       0      0        0            0     13      222        0        235         11      0        9         20      0      169        7        176        431
        17:30       0      0        0            0     14      198        0        212          4      0       10         14      0      204       12        216        442
        17:45       0      0        0            0     16      226        0        242          8      0       14         22      0      166       14        180        444
         Total      0      0        0            0     59      867        0        926         34      0       41         75      0      720       43        763       1764

   Grand Total      0      0        0            0    207     2675        0       2882     193         0     184         377      0     2822      196       3018       6277
    Apprch %        0      0        0                 7.2     92.8        0                51.2        0     48.8                 0     93.5      6.5
      Total %       0      0        0            0    3.3     42.6        0        45.9     3.1        0      2.9          6      0       45      3.1        48.1
                                                                 All Traffic Data
                                                                          (916) 771-8700
CITY OF ATHERTON                                                                                               File Name    : 11-7239-006 WATKINS-PARK EXIT
                                                                                                               Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                               Start Date   : 5/25/2011
                                                                                                               Page No      :1


                                                                   Groups Printed- Unshifted
                         WATKINS AVE.                       PARK EXIT                          WATKINS AVE.
                         Southbound                        Westbound                            Northbound                          Eastbound
    Start Time    Left   Thru    Right App. Total   Left   Thru   Right App. Total     Left     Thru    Right App. Total    Left   Thru    Right   App. Total   Int. Total
        07:00       0      13       0         13      0       0       0          0        0        9       0          9       0       0       0            0           22
        07:15       0      21       0         21      2       0       0          2        0       14       0         14       0       0       0            0           37
        07:30       0      34       0         34      3       0       1          4        0       25       0         25       0       0       0            0           63
        07:45       1      17       0         18      1       0       0          1        0       51       0         51       0       0       0            0           70
          Total     1      85       0         86      6       0       1          7        0       99       0         99       0       0       0            0          192

        08:00       0      29        0        29      2      0        2          4         0     30        0         30       0      0        0            0          63
        08:15       0      38        0        38      1      0        1          2         0     26        0         26       0      0        0            0          66
        08:30       0      23        0        23      7      0       13         20         0     24        0         24       0      0        0            0          67
        08:45       0      18        0        18     11      0        9         20         0     16        0         16       0      0        0            0          54
         Total      0     108        0       108     21      0       25         46         0     96        0         96       0      0        0            0         250




        16:00       0      25        0        25     21      0       13         34         0     16        0         16       0      0        0            0          75
        16:15       0      20        0        20      3      0        7         10         0     16        0         16       0      0        0            0          46
        16:30       0      19        0        19      5      0        3          8         0     16        0         16       0      0        0            0          43
        16:45       0      36        0        36      1      0        2          3         0     22        0         22       0      0        0            0          61
         Total      0     100        0       100     30      0       25         55         0     70        0         70       0      0        0            0         225

        17:00       0      26        0        26      4      0        1          5         0     13        0         13       0      0        0            0          44
        17:15       1      14        0        15      1      0        4          5         0     16        0         16       0      0        0            0          36
        17:30       2      25        0        27      4      0        4          8         0      8        1          9       0      0        0            0          44
        17:45       2      28        0        30      1      0        6          7         0     14        1         15       0      0        0            0          52
         Total      5      93        0        98     10      0       15         25         0     51        2         53       0      0        0            0         176

   Grand Total      6     386        0       392     67      0      66         133         0    316        2        318       0      0        0            0         843
    Apprch %      1.5     98.5       0              50.4     0     49.6                    0    99.4     0.6                  0      0        0
      Total %     0.7     45.8       0       46.5    7.9     0      7.8        15.8        0    37.5     0.2        37.7      0      0        0            0
                                                                                  All Traffic Data
                                                                                           (916) 771-8700
CITY OF ATHERTON                                                                                                                   File Name    : 11-7239-006 WATKINS-PARK EXIT
                                                                                                                                   Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                                   Start Date   : 5/21/2011
                                                                                                                                   Page No      :1


                                                                                    Groups Printed- Unshifted
                                   WATKINS AVE.                             PARK EXIT                            WATKINS AVE.
                                   Southbound                              Westbound                              Northbound                            Eastbound
         Start Time       Left     Thru    Right App. Total         Left   Thru    Right App. Total       Left    Thru    Right App. Total      Left   Thru     Right   App. Total   Int. Total
              11:00         0        20       0         20           15       0      11           26         0      18       0         18         0       0        0             0          64
              11:15         0        22       0         22           10       0       7           17         0      11       0         11         0       0        0             0          50
              11:30         0        17       0         17           11       0      11           22         0      10       1         11         0       0        0             0          50
              11:45         0        20       0         20           11       0       9           20         0      23       1         24         0       0        0             0          64
               Total        0        79       0         79           47       0      38           85         0      62       2         64         0       0        0             0         228

              12:00          0        21          0           21       2      0        5           7        0      10         0          10       0       0        0             0         38
              12:15          0        20          0           20       3      0        1           4        0      19         0          19       0       0        0             0         43
              12:30          1        18          0           19       0      0        1           1        0      11         0          11       0       0        0             0         31
              12:45          0        15          0           15       2      0        2           4        0      10         0          10       0       0        0             0         29
               Total         1        74          0           75       7      0        9          16        0      50         0          50       0       0        0             0        141

        Grand Total          1       153          0          154      54      0       47         101        0      112        2         114       0       0        0             0        369
         Apprch %          0.6      99.4          0                 53.5      0     46.5                    0     98.2      1.8                   0       0        0
            Total %        0.3      41.5          0         41.7    14.6      0     12.7        27.4        0     30.4      0.5         30.9      0       0        0             0




                                     WATKINS AVE.                           PARK EXIT                            WATKINS AVE.
                                      Southbound                           Westbound                              Northbound                            Eastbound
         Start Time         Left      Thru       Right App. Total   Left   Thru    Right   App. Total     Left    Thru    Right App. Total      Left   Thru     Right   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 11:00 to 12:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 11:00
              11:00            0        20           0         20     15      0       11          26         0      18         0         18        0      0        0             0         64
              11:15            0        22           0         22     10      0        7          17         0      11         0         11        0      0        0             0         50
              11:30            0        17           0         17     11      0       11          22         0      10         1         11        0      0        0             0         50
              11:45            0        20           0         20     11      0        9          20         0      23         1         24        0      0        0             0         64
      Total Volume             0        79           0         79     47      0       38          85         0      62         2         64        0      0        0             0        228
      % App. Total             0       100           0              55.3      0     44.7                     0    96.9       3.1                   0      0        0
                PHF        .000       .898        .000       .898   .783   .000     .864        .817      .000    .674     .500         .667    .000   .000     .000         .000        .891
                                                                   All Traffic Data
                                                                            (916) 771-8700
CITY OF ATHERTON                                                                                         File Name    : 11-7239-005 WATKINS-PARK ENTRANCE
                                                                                                         Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                         Start Date   : 5/25/2011
                                                                                                         Page No      :1


                                                                     Groups Printed- Unshifted
                         WATKINS AVE.                      PARK ENTRANCE                         WATKINS AVE.
                         Southbound                          Westbound                            Northbound                          Eastbound
    Start Time    Left   Thru    Right App. Total   Left    Thru    Right App. Total     Left     Thru    Right App. Total    Left   Thru    Right   App. Total   Int. Total
        07:00       1      11       0         12      0        0       0           0        0        9       2         11       0       0       0            0           23
        07:15       1      22       0         23      0        0       0           0        0       14       5         19       0       0       0            0           42
        07:30       3      33       0         36      0        0       0           0        0       27       1         28       0       0       0            0           64
        07:45       2      18       0         20      0        0       0           0        0       50       3         53       0       0       0            0           73
          Total     7      84       0         91      0        0       0           0        0      100      11        111       0       0       0            0          202

        08:00       1      28        0        29      0        0        0          0         0     31         5         36      0      0        0            0          65
        08:15      18      20        0        38      0        0        0          0         0     27        16         43      0      0        0            0          81
        08:30      12      16        0        28      0        0        0          0         0     23        11         34      0      0        0            0          62
        08:45       5      27        0        32      0        0        0          0         0     15        10         25      0      0        0            0          57
         Total     36      91        0       127      0        0        0          0         0     96        42        138      0      0        0            0         265




        16:00       8      39        0        47      0        0        0          0         0     16         2         18      0      0        0            0          65
        16:15       5      20        0        25      0        0        0          0         0     17         0         17      0      0        0            0          42
        16:30       1      22        0        23      0        0        0          0         0     17         2         19      0      0        0            0          42
        16:45       4      34        0        38      0        0        0          0         0     22         3         25      0      0        0            0          63
         Total     18     115        0       133      0        0        0          0         0     72         7         79      0      0        0            0         212

        17:00       7      22        0        29      0        0        0          0         0     13         2         15      0      0        0            0          44
        17:15       3      14        0        17      0        0        0          0         0     18         3         21      0      0        0            0          38
        17:30       5      21        0        26      0        0        0          0         0      6         4         10      0      0        0            0          36
        17:45       8      22        0        30      0        0        0          0         0     15         3         18      0      0        0            0          48
         Total     23      79        0       102      0        0        0          0         0     52        12         64      0      0        0            0         166

   Grand Total     84     369        0       453      0        0        0          0         0    320        72        392      0      0        0            0         845
    Apprch %      18.5    81.5       0                0        0        0                    0    81.6      18.4                0      0        0
      Total %      9.9    43.7       0       53.6     0        0        0          0         0    37.9       8.5       46.4     0      0        0            0
                                                                                    All Traffic Data
                                                                                             (916) 771-8700
CITY OF ATHERTON                                                                                                           File Name    : 11-7239-005 WATKINS-PARK ENTRANCE
                                                                                                                           Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                           Start Date   : 5/21/2011
                                                                                                                           Page No      :1


                                                                                      Groups Printed- Unshifted
                                   WATKINS AVE.                            PARK ENTRANCE                           WATKINS AVE.
                                   Southbound                                Westbound                              Northbound                          Eastbound
         Start Time       Left     Thru    Right App. Total         Left     Thru    Right App. Total       Left    Thru    Right App. Total    Left   Thru     Right   App. Total   Int. Total
              11:00         5        29       0         34            0         0       0            0         0      19        9        28       0       0        0             0          62
              11:15         4        27       0         31            1         0       0            1         0      12        1        13       0       0        0             0          45
              11:30         5        24       0         29            0         0       0            0         0      12        3        15       0       0        0             0          44
              11:45         6        28       0         34            0         0       0            0         0      24        5        29       0       0        0             0          63
               Total       20       108       0        128            1         0       0            1         0      67       18        85       0       0        0             0         214

              12:00          3        17          0           20      0         0        0           0        0      11         3         14      0       0        0             0         34
              12:15          4        20          0           24      0         0        0           0        0      14         2         16      0       0        0             0         40
              12:30          4        16          0           20      0         0        0           0        0      11         1         12      0       0        0             0         32
              12:45          3        17          0           20      0         0        0           0        0      10         5         15      0       0        0             0         35
               Total        14        70          0           84      0         0        0           0        0      46        11         57      0       0        0             0        141

        Grand Total         34       178          0          212       1        0        0           1        0      113        29       142      0       0        0             0        355
         Apprch %           16        84          0                 100         0        0                    0     79.6      20.4                0       0        0
            Total %        9.6      50.1          0         59.7     0.3        0        0         0.3        0     31.8       8.2        40      0       0        0             0




                                     WATKINS AVE.                          PARK ENTRANCE                           WATKINS AVE.
                                      Southbound                             Westbound                              Northbound                          Eastbound
         Start Time         Left      Thru       Right App. Total   Left     Thru    Right App. Total       Left    Thru    Right App. Total    Left   Thru     Right   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 11:00 to 12:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 11:00
              11:00            5        29           0         34      0        0        0           0         0      19         9        28       0      0        0             0         62
              11:15            4        27           0         31      1        0        0           1         0      12         1        13       0      0        0             0         45
              11:30            5        24           0         29      0        0        0           0         0      12         3        15       0      0        0             0         44
              11:45            6        28           0         34      0        0        0           0         0      24         5        29       0      0        0             0         63
      Total Volume           20        108           0        128      1        0        0           1         0      67        18        85       0      0        0             0        214
      % App. Total         15.6       84.4           0               100        0        0                     0    78.8      21.2                 0      0        0
                PHF        .833       .931        .000       .941   .250     .000     .000        .250      .000    .698      .500       .733   .000   .000     .000         .000        .849
                                                                 All Traffic Data
                                                                          (916) 771-8700
CITY OF ATHERTON                                                                                         File Name         : 11-7239-002 WATKINS-DINKELSPIEL
                                                                                                         Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                                         Start Date        : 5/25/2011
                                                                                                         Page No           :1


                                                                   Groups Printed- Unshifted
                         WATKINS AVE.                                                          WATKINS AVE.                   DINKELSPIEL (STATION) LANE
                         Southbound                        Westbound                            Northbound                           Eastbound
    Start Time    Left   Thru    Right App. Total   Left   Thru   Right   App. Total   Left     Thru    Right App. Total      Left  Thru     Right App. Total   Int. Total
        07:00       0      12       0         12      0       0      0            0      0        11       0         11         2      0        0          2           25
        07:15       0      22       2         24      0       0      0            0      0        19       0         19         0      0        0          0           43
        07:30       0      37       1         38      0       0      0            0      0        27       0         27         4      0        1          5           70
        07:45       0      17       1         18      0       0      0            0      0        45       0         45         6      0        1          7           70
          Total     0      88       4         92      0       0      0            0      0       102       0        102        12      0        2         14          208

        08:00       0      31        1        32      0      0       0            0        1     37        0         38         6       0        0         6          76
        08:15       0      14        8        22      0      0       0            0        0     33        0         33         6       0        1         7          62
        08:30       0      18        1        19      0      0       0            0        0     33        0         33         1       0        0         1          53
        08:45       0      25        1        26      0      0       0            0        1     23        0         24         5       0        0         5          55
         Total      0      88       11        99      0      0       0            0        2    126        0        128        18       0        1        19         246




        16:00       0      28       12        40      0      0       0            0        0     20        0         20         1       0        2         3          63
        16:15       0      16        4        20      0      0       0            0        0     14        0         14         2       0        1         3          37
        16:30       0      12        6        18      0      0       0            0        0     16        0         16         5       0        1         6          40
        16:45       0      31        8        39      0      0       0            0        1     23        0         24         3       0        0         3          66
         Total      0      87       30       117      0      0       0            0        1     73        0         74        11       0        4        15         206

        17:00       0      19        3        22      0      0       0            0        1     13        0         14         3       0        0         3          39
        17:15       0      14        2        16      0      0       0            0        1     14        0         15         6       0        0         6          37
        17:30       0      14        5        19      0      0       0            0        1      7        0          8         2       0        0         2          29
        17:45       0      18        6        24      0      0       0            0        1     20        0         21         1       0        0         1          46
         Total      0      65       16        81      0      0       0            0        4     54        0         58        12       0        0        12         151

   Grand Total      0     328      61        389      0      0       0            0       7     355        0        362        53       0        7        60         811
    Apprch %        0     84.3    15.7                0      0       0                  1.9     98.1       0                  88.3      0     11.7
      Total %       0     40.4     7.5        48      0      0       0            0     0.9     43.8       0        44.6       6.5      0      0.9        7.4
                                                                   All Traffic Data
                                                                            (916) 771-8700
CITY OF ATHERTON                                                                                       File Name     : 11-7239-004 WATKINS-EL CAMINO REAL
                                                                                                       Site Code     : 00000000
                                                                                                       Start Date    : 5/25/2011
                                                                                                       Page No       :1


                                                                     Groups Printed- Unshifted
                         WATKINS AVE.                      EL CAMINO REAL                                                            EL CAMINO REAL
                         Southbound                          Westbound                           Northbound                             Eastbound
    Start Time    Left   Thru    Right App. Total   Left     Thru   Right App. Total     Left    Thru    Right   App. Total   Left     Thru    Right App. Total   Int. Total
        07:00      10       0       3         13      0        89      6          95        0       0       0            0      6       236       0        242          350
        07:15      18       0       4         22      0       103     14        117         0       0       0            0      4       329       0        333          472
        07:30      20       0      20         40      0       168     18        186         0       0       0            0      9       543       0        552          778
        07:45       6       0      14         20      0       231     28        259         0       0       0            0     19       535       0        554          833
          Total    54       0      41         95      0       591     66        657         0       0       0            0     38     1643        0       1681        2433

        08:00      17       0       15        32      0      226       26        252         0     0        0            0      8      438        0        446        730
        08:15       8       0        5        13      0      208       28        236         0     0        0            0      8      442        0        450        699
        08:30       8       0        8        16      0      195       26        221         0     0        0            0      9      490        0        499        736
        08:45      10       0       13        23      0      190       19        209         0     0        0            0      4      406        0        410        642
         Total     43       0       41        84      0      819       99        918         0     0        0            0     29     1776        0       1805       2807




        16:00       0       0       27        27      0      404       14        418         0     0        0            0      8      284        0        292        737
        16:15       1       0       15        16      0      392       11        403         0     0        0            0      5      279        0        284        703
        16:30       0       0       11        11      0      421       11        432         0     0        0            0      7      269        0        276        719
        16:45       3       0       26        29      0      384       15        399         0     0        0            0      8      305        0        313        741
         Total      4       0       79        83      0     1601       51       1652         0     0        0            0     28     1137        0       1165       2900

        17:00       0       0       20        20      0      449       12        461         0     0        0            0      2      324        0        326        807
        17:15       2       0       15        17      0      470        6        476         0     0        0            0      7      297        0        304        797
        17:30       2       0       11        13      0      462        6        468         0     0        0            0      1      288        0        289        770
        17:45       2       0       15        17      0      440       15        455         0     0        0            0      8      252        0        260        732
         Total      6       0       61        67      0     1821       39       1860         0     0        0            0     18     1161        0       1179       3106

   Grand Total    107       0     222        329      0     4832      255       5087         0     0        0            0    113     5717        0       5830      11246
    Apprch %      32.5      0     67.5                0       95        5                    0     0        0                 1.9     98.1        0
      Total %        1      0        2        2.9     0       43      2.3        45.2        0     0        0            0      1     50.8        0        51.8
