          Prepared for




          Martin County
Metropolitan Planning Organization




           Prepared by




    Adopted February 20, 2012
    Martin County Congestion Management 
             Process Update 2011 

                                                   
                                                   
                                        Prepared for  
          Martin County Metropolitan Planning Organization 
                                                   
                                                   
                                         Prepared by 
                                            AECOM 
                                                   
                                                   
                             Adopted February 20, 2012 
                                                   
                               For complaints, questions or concerns
             about civil rights or nondiscrimination or for special requests under the
    Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) or for translation assistance at least 7 days prior to a
                                      meeting, please contact:
                                        Michael Malham
                                      mmalham@martin.fl.us
                                          772-320-3015

                               

February 20, 2012                                                                              Page 1 
                                          MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                           CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                            
 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Executive Summary                                                                                           5 

Introduction                                                                                               11 
Project Selection (Tier 1, Tier2 Screenings)                                                               20 

Existing Roadway Conditions (SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike)                           25 
    SR 714 at SW Citrus Boulevard                                                                          25 
    SR 714 at SW 42nd Avenue                                                                               25 
    SR 714 at Leighton Farm Road/SW Deggeller Court                                                        27 
    SR 714 at SW Armellini Avenue                                                                          27 

    SR 714 at Florida's Turnpike Entrance/Martin Downs Boulevard                                           27 

Data Collection                                                                                            28 

    Crash Data                                                                                             28 
    Traffic Counts                                                                                         28 
    Travel Time & Delay Studies                                                                            31 

    Signal Timing                                                                                          31 

    RightofWay Information                                                                                 31 

    Planned and Programmed Improvements                                                                    31 

Field Reviews                                                                                              33 
    SR 714 at SW Citrus Boulevard                                                                          33 

    SR 714 at SW 42nd Avenue                                                                               34 

    SR 714 at Deggeller Court/Leighton Farms Road                                                          34 
    SR 714 at Armellini Avenue                                                                             35 

    SR 714 at Florida's Turnpike                                                                           35 

Analysis                                                                                                   36 

    Arterial Level of Service Analysis                                                                     36 
    Intersection Level of Service Analysis                                                                 36 
    Crash Data Review                                                                                      40 

    Travel Time & Delay Studies                                                                            41 
    Access Management                                                                                      49 

February 20, 2012                                                                                      Page 2 
                                                            
                                        MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                         CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                            
Performance Monitoring Plan                                                                              50 
    Performance Measures                                                                                 50 
    Data Needs                                                                                           54 
    Considerations in Selecting Performance Measures                                                     55 

    Performance Measures for SR 714                                                                      57 
    Evaluate Effectiveness of Implemented Congestion Mitigation Strategies                               57 

Summary of Study Findings                                                                                59 

Proposed Improvements                                                                                    61 
    SR 714 at Citrus Boulevard                                                                           61 

    SR 714 at SW 42nd Avenue                                                                             61 

    SR 714 at Florida's Turnpike                                                                         62 
    SR 714 at Armellini Avenue                                                                           63 

    SR 714 at Deggeller Court/Leighton Farms Road                                                        63 

    Corridor Improvements                                                                                64 

Benefit/Cost Analysis                                                                                    64 

Conclusions                                                                                              65 

Site Photos                                                                                              71 

Appendix A ­ Corridor Aerial Map                                                                         82 

Appendix B ­ Traffic Counts                                                                             829 

Appendix C ­ Travel Time and Delay Study Reports                                                        157 

Appendix D ­ Signal Timing                                                                              238 

Appendix E ­ Rightofway Information                                                                     244 

Appendix F ­ LOS Report & Peak Season Factors                                                           275 

Appendix G ­ Operational Analysis Outputs                                                               278 

Appendix H ­ Armallini Avenue Alternative Route Map                                                     404 

Appendix I ­ Benefit/Cost Calculations                                                                  406 

                                     

February 20, 2012                                                                                    Page 3 
                                                            
                                    MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                     CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                       
LIST OF TABLES  
Table 1: Martin County Summary Utilization Statistics                                                18 
Table 2: Percent of Vehicle Miles Traveled at Different Volumes to GSC Percentages                   18 
Table 3: Example Level of Service (LOS) Database                                                     19 
Table 4: Candidate Roadway Segments                                                                  21 
Table 5: Existing AM Peak Period Turning Movement Counts                                             28 
Table 6: Existing PM Peak Period Turning Movement Counts                                             29 
Table 7: 24hour Counts provided by Martin County MPO for March 8, March 9 & March10, 2011            29 
Table 8: 2021 AM Peak Period Turning Movement Counts                                                 30 
Table 9: 2021 PM Peak Period Turning Movement Counts                                                 30 
Table 10: 2031 AM Peak Period Turning Movement Counts                                                31 
Table 11: 2031 PM Peak Period Turning Movement Counts                                                31 
Table 12: Arterial LOS form ARTPLAN                                                                  36 
Table 13: HCM based LOS summary for existing conditions                                              37 
Table 14: HCM based LOS summary for future years 2021 and 2031                                       38 
Table 15: HCM based LOS Summary for Optimized Conditions                                             39 
Table 16: HCM based LOS Summary with Geometric Improvements                                          40 
Table 17: Crash Summary (January 1, 2008 to August 31, 2011)                                         41 
Table 18: Travel Time Summary for Eastbound SR 714                                                   43 
Table 19: Summary of Average Speeds for Eastbound SR 714                                             43 
Table 20: Summary of Travel Time and Average Speed for Eastbound SR 714                              43 
Table 21: Travel Time Summary for Westbound SR 714                                                   44 
Table 22: Summary of Average Speeds for Westbound SR 714                                             44 
Table 23: Summary of Travel Time and Average Speed for Westbound SR 714                              44 
Table 24: Summary of Cost Due to Congestion                                                          49 
Table 25: Examples of Performance Measures (Source: FHWA Congestion Management Guide)                52 
Table 26: Summary of Cost Due to Congestion                                                          60 
Table 27: Implementation Plan                                                                        66 
 

LIST OF FIGURES 
Figure 1: Percent of Vehicle Miles Traveled at Different Volumes to GSC Percentages                  19 
Figure 2: Average Hourly Twoway Volumes as Percent of Generalized Service Volume                     23 
Figure 3: Study Location Map                                                                         26 
Figure 4: Proposed lane configuration                                                                40 
Figure 5: General Layout for the Travel Time and Delay Studies                                       42 
Figure 6: Speed/Distance Profiles of All Eastbound Runs                                              45 
Figure 7: Speed/Distance Profiles of all Westbound Runs                                              46 
Figure 8: Time/Space Trajectories of all Eastbound Runs                                              47 
Figure 9: Time/Space Trajectories of All Westbound Runs                                              48 
Figure 10: Three Dimensions of Congestion (Source: FHWA Congestion Management Guide)                 51 
                                 

February 20, 2012                                                                                Page 4 
                                                       
                                   MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                    CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                       
Executive Summary 
Introduction 

Federal regulations require a Congestion Management Process (CMP) in all Transportation Management 
Areas (TMAs)  urban areas whose population exceeds 200,000. This began with the Intermodal Surface 
Transportation Efficiency Act (ISTEA) in 1991, and was reiterated in the two subsequent reauthorizations. 
Federal register 23 CFR 450.320 states that a CMP should include methods to monitor and evaluate the 
performance of the multimodal transportation system, identify the causes of congestion, identify and 
evaluate alternative actions, provide information supporting the implementation of actions, and evaluate 
the efficiency and effectiveness of implemented actions.  In Florida, this requirement for a CMP is extended 
to all Metropolitan Planning Organizations (MPO). Florida Statute 339.177 (2) states that "Each 
metropolitan planning organization within the state must develop and implement a traffic congestion 
management system. " 

The 2035 Regional Long Range Transportation Plan for Martin and St. Lucie Counties includes Congestion 
Management Process Strategies in Chapter 8. It states that "CMP Strategies are lowercost alternatives to 
traditional roadway widening that typically involve traffic operational improvements. CMP Strategies 
include improvements such as traffic signal timing optimization, adding intersection turn lanes, multimodal 
transportation solutions, and other traffic operational enhancements." 

Consistent with this requirement, Martin County implemented an Advanced Traffic Management System 
(ATMS) in phases beginning in July, 2009 through its completion in July, 2011.  

As part of the CMP Update 2011, the Martin County MPO reviewed the 2010 Level of Service Inventory 
Report to select those road segments for which the 2010 traffic volumes were above 90% of their 
respective service volumes.  These segments were then sorted in descending order by their daily VMT 
(Vehicle Miles of Travel), thus treating them equally in terms of congestion intensity, but assigning more 
importance based on the amount of utilization. In the second order screening, the existence or absence of 
impending improvements was used to determine the need for further consideration. Based on this 
systematic screening process, the Martin County MPO selected the SR714 segment from Citrus Boulevard 
to the Turnpike for further study, as this segment of SR 714 is not scheduled for improvements until the 
20312035 time frame and no parallel facilities are scheduled in the current Work Program for 
improvements.  

The study segment of SR 714 is a twolane undivided roadway, approximately 1.1 mile long with three 
signalized (Turnpike, 42nd Avenue and Citrus Boulevard) and two unsignalized intersections (SW Armellini 
Avenue and Deggeller Court). 

As such, the primary focus of this CMP Update is to identify congested areas and determine low cost 
operational improvements to enhance traffic flow along this segment of SR 714. Detailed roadway and 
safety analyses are not included in the scope of this study.  



February 20, 2012                                                                                    Page 5 
                                                       
                                   MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                    CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                      
 

Congested Areas and Causes for Congestion 

The identification process included collecting and analyzing roadway data (such as number of through 
lanes, turn lanes, lane width, etc), traffic data, signal timing data, and travel time/speed data, and 
conducting field reviews during peak periods to identify roadway segments and intersections that are 
currently operating below acceptable Level of Service (LOS D). In addition, traffic projections for future 
years (2021 and 2031) were developed and analyzed using traffic analysis software (ARTPLAN and Synchro) 
to determine expected LOS for the corridor and intersections in 2021 and 2031. 

The operational analyses conducted with current traffic and roadway conditions revealed that the following 
intersections and specific traffic movements are experiencing LOS below acceptable levels (worse than LOS 
D): 
      Southbound leftturn movement at Citrus Boulevard operates at LOS F during AM peak period. 
      Southbound leftturn movement at 42nd Avenue operates at LOS F during PM peak period. 
      The intersection of SR 714/Turnpike operates at LOS E during AM peak period. 
      The eastbound leftturn movement at Turnpike operates at LOS E during AM peak period. 
 
The operational analysis conducted with 2021 traffic volumes indicates that:  
      The intersection of SR 714/Citrus Boulevard is expected to operate at LOS F during the AM peak 
         period. 
      The intersection of SR 714/SW 42nd Avenue is expected to operate at LOS F during the PM peak 
         period. 
 
The operational analysis conducted with 2031 traffic volumes indicates that:  
      The intersection of SR 714/Citrus Boulevard is expected to operate at LOS F during the AM peak 
         period. 
      The intersection of SR 714/SW 42nd Avenue is expected to operate at LOS F during the PM peak 
         period. 
      Since the intersection of SR 714/Turnpike will be improved as part of a FDOT roadway widening 
         project in FY 2015, this intersection is expected operate at LOS E during PM peak period. 
 
Field reviews conducted during peak periods revealed that the following traffic movements experienced 
excessive delays, queuing and/or cycle failures:  
      Southbound leftturn and eastbound through movements at Citrus Boulevard during AM peak 
         period. 
      Westbound through and southbound leftturn movements at 42nd Avenue during PM peak period. 
      The eastbound leftturn movement at Turnpike during AM and PM peak periods. 
      The southbound rightturn movement at Turnpike during PM peak period. 
          


February 20, 2012                                                                                   Page 6 
                                                      
                                   MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                    CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                       
The results of the Travel Time and Delay Studies conducted during offpeak periods indicate an average 
travel time of 166 seconds. Based on traffic models developed for peak periods, the average travel time 
during peak periods is estimated to be 231 seconds, which indicates approximately a 39% increase in travel 
time during peak hours. Based on increased travel times during congested conditions, and a cost of 
$16/hour for lost time, the average annual cost of congestion is estimated to be approximately $250,000.  

The stop and go conditions associated with signal cycle changes and the lack of a fully coordinated signal 
system (the current coordinated system includes only Citrus Boulevard and 42nd Avenue intersections, but 
does not include the Turnpike intersection), and inadequate capacity for critical movements at signalized 
intersections appear to be contributing to increased travel times along the corridor. The Martin County 
Traffic Engineering Department is in the process of implementing a coordinated signal system to include 
the Turnpike intersection. 

In summary, the operational analyses conducted as part of this study indicate that some specific traffic 
movements are currently operating at unacceptable levels of service. Also, based on traffic projections for 
future years, all three signalized intersections within the study segment are expected to operate at LOS F 
(either during AM or PM peak) in the year 2021 and beyond. The intersection of SR 714/Turnpike will be 
expanded (with additional through and turn lanes in east/west direction) as part of a programmed roadway 
widening project along SR 714 in FY 2015, which will improve traffic flow at this intersection. Therefore, 
operational improvements are needed at the other two signalized intersections (SR 714/42nd Avenue and 
SR 714/Citrus Boulevard).  
 
Potential Operational Improvements 

The current and future traffic conditions were modeled using Synchro  software to identify potential 
operational improvements. Subsequently, traffic models were run with and without improvements to 
evaluate/quantify the impact of proposed improvements on traffic flow. The improvements that showed 
positive impact on traffic flow were selected for further consideration. Potential improvements were then 
prioritized based on factors such as, project cost, potential benefit, Right of Way (R/W) availability, and 
potential impacts.  

Recommendations 

Based on the results of the analyses conducted as part of this study, the following improvements are 
suggested for implementation by Martin County and FDOT to help improve traffic flow along the study 
segment of SR 714. 
 
SR 714 at Citrus Boulevard  

    1. Change cycle length to 160 seconds and optimize splits and offsets. 
    2. Convert the existing southbound through lane to a shared leftturn/ through lane and widen the 
       east leg to accommodate dual southbound leftturn lanes.  



February 20, 2012                                                                                     Page 7 
                                                       
                                     MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                      CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                           
    3.    Widen the west leg to provide two through lanes for eastbound traffic to add additional capacity 
          for eastbound traffic.  
    4.    Extend the westbound rightturn and leftturn lanes. 
    5.    Install guide stripes for all leftturn movements to properly guide leftturning vehicles. 
    6.    Evaluate roadway drainage in the southeast corner and implement necessary actions. 
    7.    It is suggested that the stop bar locations on the west and north legs be reviewed and adjusted as 
          needed.  

SR 714 at SW 42nd Avenue  

    8.    Change cycle length to 160 seconds and optimize splits and offsets. 
    9.    Replace the existing vehicle detection equipment at this intersection with updated equipment. 
    10.   Move the stop bars closer to the intersection, if possible. 
    11.   Widen east and west legs to provide two through lanes in each direction to increase capacity. 
    12.   Improve the westbound rightturn radius to accommodate truck traffic.  
    13.   Install guide stripes for all leftturn movements to properly guide leftturning vehicles. 

SR 714 at Florida's Turnpike  

    14. Coordinate this signal with adjacent signalized intersections, High Meadow Avenue to the east and 
        SW 42nd Avenue to the west, and implement a coordinated signal system to improve traffic flow. 
        The Martin County Traffic Engineering Department is in the process of implementing a coordinated 
        signal system from High Meadow Avenue to Citrus Boulevard. The new coordinated system 
        includes this intersection. 
    15. Convert the existing "protected/permissive" leftturn phase in the eastbound and westbound 
        directions to "protected only" phase to reduce leftturn crashes. 
    16. Install a rightturn overlap phase for southbound rightturn traffic to reduce delay. 
    17. Install dual leftturn lanes in the eastbound and westbound directions to reduce delay for left
        turning traffic. 
    18. Evaluate the need to extend the guardrail located on the south side of eastbound SR 714. 
    19. As part of a FDOT roadway widening project scheduled for FY 2015, an additional through lane will 
        be installed in the eastbound and westbound directions at this intersection.  A preliminary review 
        indicates that additional through lanes (to be added as part of this FDOT project) can be extended 
        further west past the Turnpike bridge, but may require some widening on the west side of the 
        bridge. Further evaluation and coordination with FDOT is needed to confirm the feasibility of 
        providing four lanes across the Turnpike Bridge. 
    20. It is suggested that the outside southbound through lane be converted to a right/through shared 
        lane. Evaluate the need for this improvement again after the Indian Street Bridge project is 
        complete to make sure the southbound rightturn volume remains heavy. 
    21. Install a `Queue Detection and Motorist Warning System' to warn eastbound motorists of potential 
        stopped/queued traffic at the intersection. 
    22. It is suggested that the existing "Stop Here on Red" and "Yield" signs be removed.  
    23. Install a "Signal Ahead" sign (facing eastbound traffic) on the west side of the Turnpike Bridge. 
February 20, 2012                                                                                      Page 8 
                                                         
                                   MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                    CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                          
    24. Install guide stripes for all leftturn movements. 
    25. Refurbish pavement markings on the west leg. 
    26. Trim the shrubbery located on the northeast corner to help improve southbound rightturn 
        motorists' view of westbound traffic.  
    27. Replace the broken sidewalk on the northwest corner and implement necessary improvements to 
        provide proper drainage on the NW corner. 
    28. Install pedestrian features at this intersection. 
SR 714 at Armellini Avenue  

   29. Modify the median opening to allow eastbound leftturn onto Armellini Avenue and restrict the 
       southbound movement from Armellini Avenue to "Rightturn Only."  
   30. Modify the southbound rightturn radius (to accommodate a WB40 design vehicle) and reconstruct 
       the curb and replace the existing guardrail end anchor and install additional guardrail to meet 
       current standards. 
   31. Upgrade pedestrian features, such as the pipe guiderail, crosswalk and sidewalk ramps to meet 
       current standards.   

SR 714 at Deggeller Court/Leighton Farms Road 

   32. Consider striping the median area on SR 714 between Deggeller Court and Leighton Farms Road to 
       better delineate the turning path for northbound and southbound leftturn movements, and thus 
       reduce the potential for headon collisions. 
   33. Install a crosswalk on the north leg. 
   34. Clear sand buildup and other debris from pedestrian ramp areas in the northwest and northeast 
       corners. 
   35. Evaluate roadway drainage in the northwest and northeast corners and implement necessary 
       actions. 
   36. It is recommended that Leighton Farm Road be shifted further west (possibly through the 
       permitting process for future developments or roadway projects), so that it is aligned with 
       Deggeller Court to form a proper fourlegged intersection. This will provide for safer and more 
       efficient operations at this intersection. As an alternative, consider restricting the northbound 
       movements to "Rightturn Only". 

Corridor Improvements 

   37. Implement a coordinated signal system along SR 714 and connect the signal at the Turnpike 
       intersection with other signalized intersections along the corridor. 
   38. The guide signing along the corridor should be analyzed and enhanced as needed.  
   39. Considering that the subject corridor provides access to two major roadways, I95 and Florida's 
       Turnpike, it is suggested that arterial dynamic message signs be installed at strategic locations to 
       inform motorists of incidents/congestion along  I95 and Florida's Turnpike. 
   40. Install bicycle facilities as part of future development/roadway projects to help reduce vehicular 
       trips along the corridor.   
February 20, 2012                                                                                      Page 9 
                                                       
                                    MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                     CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                         
    41. It is suggested that turn lanes be provided (as part of any future development) at driveways to 
        major traffic generators along the corridor to accommodate the access needs of turning traffic and 
        to minimize the negative impact of turning traffic on corridor traffic flow. 

 

 

Conclusions 

This annual update of the Martin County Congestion Management Process identified several operational 
improvements to reduce congestion and improve traffic flow along the SR 714 corridor from Citrus 
Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike. The estimated cost of the recommended signal related improvements is 
approximately $125,000 and the resulting Benefit/Cost ratio (B/C) is 9.6. The estimated cost of the 
recommended roadway improvements is approximately $1 million and the resulting B/C ratio is 6.3. 
 
Some of the recommended improvements, especially those related to signal timing improvements, can be 
implemented using Martin County Traffic Engineering Department's resources within a relatively short 
time, thereby providing an immediate benefit to motorists. The remaining roadway improvements need to 
be considered during the development and adoption of the Martin County Transportation Improvement 
Program (TIP) and the FDOT 5Year Work Program. 

                                 




February 20, 2012                                                                                  Page 10 
                                                      
                                     MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                      CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                          
Introduction  
People do things, some everyday, some less often. They work, shop, go to school, exercise, socialize, 
recreate, etc. They perceive a benefit from these activities. Today, in Martin County, for most, doing these 
things requires a trip in an automobile.  

People are creatures of habit, and bound by schedules. They thus often make the same trip, at the same 
time of day, on the same roads, every day. 

Exhortations by auto manufacturers aside, most regard the trip as a cost, composed, if by auto, of the fixed 
and variable costs of auto ownership, and any costs imposed on the way in the form of tolls or parking 
costs. Transit trips may have a monetary cost. All trips have a cost component due to the time necessary to 
complete the trip. This total cost is born to obtain the benefit of the activity.  

Time is money, but estimating the value of time is an imprecise science.  It is a necessary exercise in the 
forecasting of toll revenues, where the toll paid is to recover the value of the time saved by the traveler. 
However, despite the immense investments that depend on them, the studies used to predict toll revenues 
have had a mixed record. An assumed value of time is necessary to convert into a dollar amount the hours 
lost annually due to congestion published each year in the Texas Transportation Institute's Urban Mobility 
Report. 

As the cost of the vehicle trip (time and money) rises, it improves the relative attractiveness of competing 
alternatives.  This internal calculation will be different for different trip types, and times of day, and days of 
the week. Transit may not provide the flexibility to do errands on the way home or on the lunch hour, but 
absent those constraints, on some days, it may provide an acceptable commute alternative. 

Any techniques that increase the cost of an automobile trip (tolls, parking charges) hastens this process. 
Congestion does this, given its effect on the amount of time the trip takes. Conversely, any capacity 
improvement, physical or operational, that reduces the time portion of the overall cost, improves the 
attractiveness of the auto trip. Congestion is thus a form of pricing; the cost of the trip increases with the 
congestion level. It is, by accident or design, the most frequently used form of pricing available.  

Congestion Types 

Congestion divides into two broad categories, nonrecurring, and recurring. 

NonRecurring Congestion 

Nonrecurring congestion refers to the types of congestion that do not occur every day as a result of normal 
traffic. Some types of nonrecurring congestion, and some of the techniques used to address them are: 

    1. Incidents (breakdowns, crashes), addressed by: 
        Safety Review or Safety Audit; 
        Access management; and 
        Improved Incident Response Techniques. 

February 20, 2012                                                                                         Page 11 
                                                          
                                     MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                      CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                          
    2. Work Zones, addressed by: 
        Maintenance of traffic (MOT) alternatives. 
    3. Normal  Weather, addressed by: 
        Variable message signs. 
    4. Special Events, addressed by : 
        Special signal control plan. 
    5. Disasters (natural or manmade), addressed by: 
        Emergency  response plans; 
        Reversible  lanes; and 
        Special signal control plans. 
 
Nonrecurring congestion is not the subject of this Congestion Management Process (CMP) update. 

Recurring Congestion 

Recurring congestion refers to the normal, daily, increase in traffic volumes on a road segment until inter
vehicle friction and intersection capacity issues reduce the travel speed on it. The travelers that create the 
congestion made a series of choices; some made very infrequently, some daily, some for each trip. The 
simulation model used by the Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO), named the Greater Treasure 
Coast Regional Planning Model (GTCRPM III), is of the type known as a "Four Step Model."  Some of the 
choices travelers make form inputs into the model, or are simulated by the model. The choices made by 
travelers include: 

        Where to live  Urban Land Use Allocation Model (ULAM) output, a simulation model input; 
        Where to work  Urban Land Use Allocation Model (ULAM) output, a simulation model input; 
        How many vehicles to own ­ a simulation model input and affects trip generation ; 
        Whether to travel ­ Trip generation is Simulation model Step 1; 
        Where to go ­ Location of economic activities is a model input, Trip Distribution is Simulation 
        model Step 2; 
        When to arrive ­ for some trip types, like work, school or appointment, there is no choice; 
        When to depart ­ for fixed arrival time trips, this varies with travel time, for other trips, it affects 
        time of day; 
        How to travel ­ Mode Split is Simulation model Step 3; and 
        What route to take ­ Trip Assignment is Simulation model Step 4. 

Congestion Management Techniques 

The three traditional categories of congestion management are:  

    1. Capacity Expansion; 
    2. Transportation System Management ; and 
    3. Transportation Demand Management. 


February 20, 2012                                                                                          Page 12 
                                                          
                                     MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                      CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                            
The first two increase the capacity of the road network. The last aims to reduce the demand for autoonly 
travel. The first two have a negligible to slightly positive influence on vehicle miles travelled (VMT) per 
capita. The last aims to reduce VMT per capita. 

Capacity Expansion  

Capacity expansion is traditionally regarded as adding lanes, between and at the intersections, and building 
new roads, bridges and interchanges. 

At a certain time of day, as a road becomes congested, travel speeds on it slow, and the travel time on it 
increases. Eventually, this increase in travel time will tip the balance for some trip makers in favor of 
another choice. For a work trip, with little flexibility in time of travel, one possible adjustment is choosing a 
different route, one that results in a quicker trip. For some trip types (not work) where the time of day for 
the trip is not critical, one adjustment is to continue to use the same road, but choose a different time of 
day, when it is less congested. If alternate modes make a quicker trip possible at the same time of day, one 
adjustment may be to choose a different mode. 

A capacity expansion on a congested road will reduce the total time of any trip that uses it, regardless of 
what other road segments make up the rest of the route. This improvement in travel time will however 
restore the superiority of using this segment over some of the alternatives chosen by trip makers who 
stopped using it, and they will return to it. The return of trip makers from other routes, other modes, and 
other times of day, is known as "triple convergence," and it is the reason new capacity can be consumed far 
faster than background population or employment growth would predict. The increase in road capacity due 
to operational improvements is small compared to an additional lane, but it is still a capacity improvement, 
and the reaction of trip makers who began avoiding it will be the same; just their numbers will be smaller.  

The trip makers that return to the facility due to its expansion are no longer using other modes, routes or 
times of travel, thus reducing the levels of congestion they experience. From a system perspective this is a 
zero sum effect. This effect will be readily apparent the day the Veterans Memorial Bridge opens, adding 
trips to the roads to which it connects, by removing them from less optimal route choices. 

Another effect of capacity increases that is harder to measure is something known as "induced" traffic. This 
refers to increases in VMT at the household level. If a badly congested road is improved, it may induce 
changes in household location to take advantage of lower prices in outer suburbs to which commute times 
were previously unacceptably long. It may also induce changes in trip destination that increase VMT. There 
may be a small retail opportunity nearby, but if the congested facility that accesses a big box retail 
establishment is improved, the short trip for sundries may be replaced by a longer one. 

The Concurrency System was Florida's experiment to see if you can build your way out of congestion.  
Following adoption in Statute in 1985 and codification in Rule 9J.5 in 1986, the state was promptly 
approached for exceptions in urban areas where it was already physically or financially impossible to add 
more lanemiles. This led to the legislation enabling Transportation Concurrency Management Areas 
(TCMAs) in 1992 and Transportation Concurrency Exception Areas (TCEAs) in 1993. MiamiDade was one of 
the first adopters of the latter.  TCEAs and TCMAs were later joined by Multimodal Transportation Districts 

February 20, 2012                                                                                        Page 13 
                                                          
                                    MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                     CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                    
(MMTDs) all of which waived the requirement for acceptable level of service on every road segment while 
requiring the implementation of other congestion management techniques. There are now in Florida over 
50 TCEAs encompassing over 260,000 acres.   

In Martin County, each new lane mile of road provides an average of 8,580 new daily vehicle miles of 
capacity. There are no other congestion management techniques that alone can add that much capacity to 
the transportation system. Each lane mile of added capacity costs an average of $2.24 million (Martin 
County Road Impact fee). 

Transportation System Management (TSM)  

These techniques affect the trip time once a traveler has decided to use an automobile, and a certain road 
segment, at a certain time of day. They do not reduce VMT per capita. They include: 

Operational Improvements: 

        Signalized intersection improvements:  timing change and restriping lanes. 
        Signal coordination ­ allow progression of platoons of vehicles. 
        Intelligent Transportation System (ITS) improvements ­ these technologies make instantaneous use 
        of travel related information. For this reason an ITS Architecture is a map of information flows. Such 
        information is either: 
            o    pulled from the transportation system to aid in system management: loop detector or 
                closed circuit television (CCTV) information about lane volumes and queue buildups used to 
                adjust signal timing and signal coordination (Adaptive Signal Control), or ramp meters;  
                information about accident locations used to improve response time; or  
            o   Pushed to travelers (Traveler Information Systems), to notify them of delays ahead in time 
                to choose a different route, or harmonize their speed, or inform them when the next 
                transit vehicle will arrive. 
        Access management ­ these techniques affect the frequency and nature of driveway connections 
        to a road, and the frequency and nature of turning movement opportunities allowed through the 
        median. All reduce conflicting vehicle movements that reduce the road's capacity. These 
        treatments also improve safety and thus reduce the nonrecurring congestion due to crashes. 
Transportation Demand Management (TDM) 

These techniques affect the choices the traveler makes, in an effort to keep them from traveling on a 
particular road segment, at a particular time of day, in sufficient numbers to make it congested. These 
choices begin with where to live and work whether to make a trip or not, by which mode, at what time of 
day, using which route. Some TDM techniques and the choices they affect are: 

        Transit system improvements ­ affects the choice of mode. Transit system improvements become a 
        congestion management technique when the level of service provided is sufficient to attract choice 
        riders. It has to be implemented within a system that provides for the entire trip, not just the 
        portion on the transit vehicle.  Land use changes help to improve transit's viability. 


February 20, 2012                                                                                    Page 14 
                                                        
                                    MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                     CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                        
        Bicycle facility improvements ­ affects the choice of mode. These improvements can become a 
        congestion management technique provided the land use pattern is one where short trips can 
        satisfy daily needs. 
        Pedestrian facility improvements ­ affects the choice of mode. These improvements can become a 
        congestion management technique provided the land use pattern is one where short trips can 
        satisfy daily needs. 
        Pricing ­ fixed, dynamic, lane, cordon, and queue jump ­ affects choice of mode, or, if by auto, time 
        of travel or choice of route. 
        Carpool and Vanpool programs ­ affects auto occupancy rates.  
        Parking management  supply and pricing ­ affects the choice of mode by increasing the monetary 
        cost at the end of the auto trip. 
        Freight movement policies ­ using restrictions or pricing (Ports of L.A. & Long Beach) to reduce 
        truck traffic impact on certain roads or certain freeway lanes at certain times of day. 
        Development patterns ­ compact, mixed use, interconnected, pedestrian friendly, bicycle friendly, 
        transit oriented. All reduce VMT by providing opportunities to meet daily needs without the use of 
        an automobile. 
        Flexible working hours ­ affects time of day of commute travel. Does not reduce VMT but spreads 
        peak hour traffic into adjacent, less congested time periods. 
        Telecommuting ­ affects the decision to travel at all and reduces VMT. 
        Graduated Residential Impact Fees. These are fees which, for the same size and type of dwelling 
        unit, differ between impact fee districts based on observed trip lengths within those districts. They 
        reflect the additional cost of providing infrastructure in areas where, due to low density 
        development patterns, total VMT per household is higher than in areas with denser development 
        and a mixture of uses. The land use scenario chosen for the most recent Long Range Transportation 
        Plan Update, "Infill Development" reflects the kind of development pattern this impact fee 
        structure is meant to incentivize. The simulation modeling work done as part of the RLRTP Update 
        noted the reduction in countywide VMT when this future development pattern was compared with 
        a more historical alternative. 
Historically, the evolution of congestion management techniques used on any given road has followed the 
order above. It begins with capacity expansions. When no further expansions are possible, system 
management techniques are applied. When those are fully deployed, demand management techniques and 
land use policies are the only tools left.   

Turning to TDM techniques last is more than an historical accident. It is the supreme flexibility of the drive 
alone mode that requires a sufficient level of congestion in order to make alternate choices (carpool, 
another mode) attractive enough to replace it. 

One exception to this typical progression is the use of low cost operational improvements on facilities that 
will be expanded at some point in the future, but so far in the future that the usually minor expense of 
interim improvements is justified.  

 
February 20, 2012                                                                                      Page 15 
                                                         
                                   MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                    CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                       
Historical and Regulatory Framework 

Federal regulations require a Congestion Management Process (CMP) in all Transportation Management 
Areas (TMAs)  urban areas whose population exceeds 200,000. This began with the Intermodal Surface 
Transportation Efficiency Act (ISTEA) in 1991 (in which it was referred to as a Congestion Management 
System or CMS), and was reiterated in the two subsequent reauthorizations. 23 CFR 450.320 states that a 
CMP should include: 

    1. Methods to monitor and evaluate the performance of the multimodal transportation system, 
       identify the causes of congestion, identify and evaluate alternative actions, provide information 
       supporting the implementation of actions, and evaluate the efficiency and effectiveness of 
       implemented actions;  
    2. Definitions of the parameters for measuring the extent of congestion and for supporting the 
       evaluation of the effectiveness of congestion reduction strategies for the movement of people and 
       goods; 
    3. Establishment of a program for data collection and system performance monitoring to define the 
       extent and duration of congestion, to help determine the causes of congestion, and to evaluate the 
       efficiency and effectiveness of implemented actions; 
    4. Identification and evaluation of the anticipated performance and expected benefits of appropriate 
       traditional and nontraditional congestion management strategies; 
    5. Identification of an implementation schedule, implementation responsibilities, and possible funding 
       sources for each strategy; and 
    6. Implementation of a process for periodic assessment of the efficiency and effectiveness of 
       implemented strategies, in terms of the area's established performance measures. 
In Florida, this requirement for a CMP is extended to all Metropolitan Planning Organizations. Florida 
Statutes 339.177 (2) states that "Each metropolitan planning organization within the state must develop 
and implement a traffic congestion management system. " 

The current 2035 Regional Long Range Transportation Plan for Martin and Saint Lucie Counties includes 
Congestion Management Process Strategies in Chapter 8 in its list of approaches to meeting future mobility 
needs. It says "CMP Strategies are lowercost alternatives to traditional roadway widening that typically 
involve traffic operational improvements. CMP Strategies include improvements such as traffic signal timing 
optimization, adding intersection turn lanes, multimodal transportation solutions, and other traffic 
operational enhancements." 

Consistent with this, Martin County implemented an Advanced Traffic Management System (ATMS) in 
stages beginning in July, 2009 through its completion in July, 2011. It now serves 25 miles of roadway and 
88 intersections. 

The current Unified Planning Work Program (UPWP) lists this update of the Congestion Management 
Process as Task 5.11. 
February 20, 2012                                                                                    Page 16 
                                                       
                                    MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                     CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                           
A scan of best practices reveals that any technique short of major capacity expansion (or even including it 
with certain conditions) can join a list of eligible congestion management techniques. This is appropriate, 
given the extensive flexibility allowed in federal funding programs.  It has however introduced a degree of 
overlap between some already well established planning efforts (bicycle, pedestrian and transit), even 
within a small MPO like Martin's.  Similarly, while identifying and addressing safety issues can reduce the 
nonrecurring congestion due to crashes, there is already a Martin County process for doing this.  

The breadth of possible congestion management techniques available has also, in one past CMP update, 
resulted in a certain amount of overreaching regarding the amount of data meant to be collected, the 
number of candidate locations identified, and number of management techniques to be explored, an 
ambitious program for which, due to the economic contraction, no local staff resources were available. This 
CMP update will attempt to avoid that. 

Current Conditions 

Nationwide, the moving 12 month total of annual VMT peaked in November 2007 at 3.04 trillion miles of 
travel. The Texas Transportation Institute estimates that in 2010 the national cost due to traffic congestion 
was $101 billion. 

Martin County maintains a database of over 180 major road segments and their traffic volumes, the 
Roadway Level of Service Inventory Report. For each segment, the Generalized Service Capacity (GSC) is the 
maximum traffic volume deemed acceptable, and corresponds to Level of Service (LOS) D, a qualitative 
measure of traveler experience. This is, with a few exceptions, the standard the County seeks to maintain, 
in accordance with Transportation Element Policy 5.2A.1. 

For each road segment, multiplying the annual average daily traffic (AADT) on it by its length in miles yields 
the number of average daily vehicle miles of travel (VMT) for that segment.  Summed over all segments in 
the database, in 2010, vehicle travel on major roads (excluding the Turnpike and I95) in Martin County 
averaged 2.715 million miles per day. This is sufficient for over five round trips to the moon, or 109 laps of 
the earth at the equator. The FDOT also estimates total vehicle miles of travel. For 2010 in Martin County, 
their estimate, including the Turnpike, I95 and local roads was an average of 5.7 million miles of travel 
daily. 

Table 1 provides the major road VMT total and other system wide statistics for the years 2000, 2005 and 
2010. Total daily VMT, and VMT per capita were lower in 2010 than 2005, a consequence of the economy, 
and consistent with national trend. The daily vehicle miles of capacity is derived by multiplying each road 
segment's Generalized Service Capacity by its length, and again summing over all road segments. System 
wide, in 2010, total VMT consumed about 40 percent of total capacity. 




February 20, 2012                                                                                     Page 17 
                                                        
                                       MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                        CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                               

                              Martin County Summa ry Utilization Statistics
                                                                   Year     2000           2005      2010

                                                          Population 126,731           141,059      146,318

                 Total Daily Vehicle-Miles Travelled (millions)             2.557          2.949     2.715

                                     Daily VMT per capita (miles)           20.2           20.9      18.6

                  Total Daily Vehicle-Miles Capacity (millions)             5.823          6.076     6.739

                                                      VMC per capita        45.9           43.1      46.1

                                            Total System Utilization        44%            49%       40%

                                                     Tota l Lane-Miles      743            763       785

        Average Daily Vehicles-Miles Capacity pe r Lane-Mile                7840           7970      8580
                              Table 1: Martin County Summary Utilization Statistics
                                                                                                                   

Table 2 provides one measure of how much of the system is experiencing different congestion levels, 
described here as the counted traffic's percentage of the general service capacity (over 100 percent is a 
level of service deficiency). In 2010, less than five percent of the vehicle miles of travel were on roads 
whose general service capacity was exceeded (a LOS deficiency). This volume to capacity determination is 
made based on analysis of conditions in the "peak" hour, an estimated volume intended to represent the 
100th highest hour, or a typical rush hour during peak season. Table 2 indicates that slightly less than five 
percent of vehicle travel was on roads congested in the peak hour, not all day long. Given that about ten 
percent of average daily travel occurs during the peak hour, and such a volume may occur twice daily, 
approximately one percent of all travel in Martin County is made in congested conditions. Figure 1 displays 
graphically the same information shown in Table 2. 

                            Percent of Vehicle Miles Traveled by Volume to
                                General Service Capacity Percentage
                                     Volume as % of General Service Capacity
                                                                  Over
                                     Less
                                             25% to 50% to 75% to 100%
                                     than                                Total
                                              50%    75%    100% (Defic-
                                      25%
                           Year                                   ient)

                           2000      10.9     24.9     30.1       27.8    6.3      100.0

                           2005       8.8     18.7     35.5       24.5    12.5     100.0

                           2010      12.4     27.8     29.9       25.3    4.6      100.0


              Table 2: Percent of Vehicle Miles Traveled at Different Volumes to GSC Percentages 
                                                                                                               

 

 

February 20, 2012                                                                                                 Page 18 
                                                               
                                      MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                       CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                             




                  Figure 1: Percent of Vehicle Miles Traveled at Different Volumes to GSC Percentages 
                                                                                                          
When discussing how much of the system is experiencing different congestion levels, Table 2 and Figure 1 
illustrate one way (VMT) of dividing the system for reporting purposes. Other ways are to provide 
congestion level information by number of road segments, or number of lane miles. If all road segments 
were the same length, same number of lanes, and carried the same traffic volumes, the impressions 
provided by the three methods would be identical. The following example illustrates the rationale for 
choosing vehicle miles of travel as the measure chosen. 

Table 3 provides the same kind of information contained in the County's annual LOS report, for a small (11 
mile) example road network. It contains only five road segments, of which only one (#5) is experiencing a 
level of service deficiency. 

                                   Example Level  of Service (LOS)  Database
                                                                                            LOS 
                     Segment  #     #    # Lane                    Daily       Daily      Deficient
                        #    Lanes Miles miles                   Traffic       VMT            ?
                        1      2    2        4                       1,000        2,000      N
                        2      2    2        4                       1,000        2,000      N
                        3      2    2        4                       1,000        2,000       N
                        4      2    2        4                       1,000        2,000       N
                        5      6    3       18                    55,000      
                                                                             165,000          Y
                             Total 11       34                                
                                                                             173,000

                                   Table 3: Example Level of Service (LOS) Database 

How much of this system is experiencing a level of service deficiency? Using number of segments as the 
system quantity reported on, the conclusion would be that 1/5 or 20 percent of the system is experiencing 

February 20, 2012                                                                                        Page 19 
                                                             
                                   MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                    CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                        
a deficiency. Using number of lanemiles, the conclusion changes to 18/34 or 53 percent of the system is 
experiencing a deficiency. But using VMT, the conclusion is that 165,000/173,000 or 95 percent of the VMT 
are on roads experiencing a level of service deficiency, which better reflects the amount of traveler 
experience at different congestion levels within the system. 

Project Selection 

Tier 1 Screening 

To ensure that no heavily travelled road segments were overlooked, the first screening of the 2010 Level of 
Service Inventory report was to select those road segments for which the counted traffic, in 2010, was 
above 90 percent of their respective service volumes.  These segments were sorted in descending order by 
their daily VMT, thus treating them equally in terms of congestion intensity, but assigning more importance 
based on the amount of utilization. The list of nine segments thus selected is shown in Table 4. 




February 20, 2012                                                                                  Page 20 
                                                      
                                                                                                   MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                        
                                                                                                    CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                                                             

                                                                              No.
                                                                                       Ge neral-       2010                      Vol ./
                                                                            Lanes                                                                VMT
                                                                                         i zed     Peak Hou r                    Gen.
    No .   Road Nam e                      From                  To          Each
                                                                                       Se rvi ce   Dir ectio nal
                                                                                                                 L (m i)   Ln-mi
                                                                                                                                 Serv.
                                                                                                                                          AADT   (Avg.                   Status
                                                                            Di rect-                                                             Dail y)
                                                                                       Capacity     Vol um e                     Cap.
                                                                              ion

                                                                                                                                                           Cost infeasible for widening, future
     1     SR-5 (US-1)               SR-732            Westmoreland Blvd       4         3590         3,229        1.1      8.8   0.90 64869     71,400
                                                                                                                                                           corridor study.

                                                                                                                                                           Cost infeasible for widening, future
     2     SR-5 (US-1)               Joan Jefferson Wy Wright Blvd             3         2940         3,080        1.2      7.2   1.05 57038     68,400
                                                                                                                                                           corridor study.
                                                                                                                                                        Parallel Facility (Veterans Memorial
     3     SR-714 (Palm City Bridge) Mapp Rd           SR-76                   2         1960         1,794        1.1      4.4   0.92 43542     47,900 [fka Indian Street] Bridge - FM#
                                                                                                                                                        230978.1) under construction.

     4     SR-76 (Kanner Hwy)        Jack James        Cove Rd                 2         1960         2,039        0.9      3.6   1.04 39213     35,300 FM# 422641.3


     5     CR-713 (High Meadow Ave) I-95               CR-714                  1         1140         1,044        2.5      5.0   0.92 13752     34,400 Capacity Expansion 2026-2030.

                                                                                                                                                           Cost infeasible for widening, future
     6     SR-5 (US-1)               Palm City Rd      Joan Jefferson Wy       3         2680         2,800        0.4      2.4   1.04 52724     21,100
                                                                                                                                                           corridor study.

     7     SR-714 (Martin Hwy)       CR-76A (Citrus)   Florida's Turnpike      1         925           917         1.1      2.2   0.99 15816     17,400 Capacity Expansion 2031-2035.

                                                                                                                                                        Parallel Facility (Veterans Memorial
     8     SR-714 (Martin Downs Blvd) Matheson Ave     Mapp Rd                 2         1960         1,794        0.5      2.0   0.92 30403     15,200 [fka Indian Street] Bridge - FM#
                                                                                                                                                        230978.1) under construction.

     9     SR-76 (Kanner Hwy)        CR-711/CR76A      Locks Rd                1         880           855         1.2      2.4   0.97 11879     14,300 Capacity Expansion 2026-2030.

                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                       Table 4: Candidate Roadway Segments




February 20, 2012                                                                                                                                                                        Page 21 
                                    MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                     CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
Tier 2 Screening 

In the second order screening, the existence or absence of impending improvements was used to 
determine the need for further consideration. Segment numbers 1, 2 and 6 are all on U.S. 1, and Martin 
County has chosen not to consider further widening within that section of the U.S. 1 corridor. All three will 
eventually become the subject of a corridor retrofit study that reaches into Saint Lucie County, examining 
all potential congestion management techniques but capacity expansion.  These segments are all at the end 
of the typical progression of congestion management techniques, given that they will not be widened 
further, and have recently had their operational characteristics improved by deployment of the ATMS on 
them. 

Two of the road segments, numbers 3 and 8, compose Martin Downs Blvd. /SR714 from SR76 westward 
across the Palm City Bridge to Matheson Avenue. Congestion on this road will be relieved by the opening of 
the Veterans Memorial Bridge, currently under construction. 

Segment number 4, Kanner Highway/SR76 from Jack James to Cove Rd., has a capacity improvement in the 
Work Program, with right of way acquisition programmed in FY14.  

Tier 3 Screening 

Of the remaining three segments, numbers 5, 7, and 9, none have any form of direct or parallel facility 
improvement scheduled in the Work Program. The final screening was to consider the time frame within 
which the Regional Long Range Transportation Plan has proposed improvements on them. For two of them, 
numbers 5 (High Meadow Ave. /CR713 from I95 to CR714) and 9 (Kanner Highway/SR76 from CR
711/CR76A to Locks Rd.), financially feasible improvements were identified in the 20262030 time frame.  

The remaining segment, number 7, Martin Highway/SR714 from CR76A (Citrus Ave) to the Martin Downs 
Blvd. /Turnpike entrance intersection, has no improvement to either it or a parallel facility scheduled in the 
current Work Program, and it is not scheduled for improvement until the 20312035 time frame. Based on 
this, this road segment was chosen for study to determine what low cost operational improvements could 
improve traffic flow on it. 

Congestion Dimensions 

Three dimensions of congestion are often cited in literature. They are intensity, duration, and extent. The 
last refers to the number of congested segments in the system.  Recall that around one percent of total 
travel is during congested conditions and the entire list of segments whose traffic exceeds ninety percent of 
their capacity is short (Table 4).  The segment chosen for study on SR714 and one other from Table 4, U.S. 
1 from Palm City Road to Joan Jefferson Way (number 6), provide an illustration of the other two 
dimensions  intensity and duration. 

The average hourly counts taken for the two road segments during one week in the Spring of 2011 are 
superimposed in Figure 2, which shows not the volumes themselves (which are significantly different given 
the nature of the two roads), but the volumes as a percentage of each road's Generalized Service Capacity  
(GSC).  Figure 2 indicates that the congestion on SR714 is more intense than that on U.S. 1, but the 
congestion on U.S. 1 is more sustained throughout the day. 

                                                        
                                     MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                      CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                           
 




                Figure 2: Average Hourly Twoway Volumes as Percent of Generalized Service Volume 
                                                                                                         

Performance Measure 

This update will involve new performance measures, of which one is related to congestion cost. Only the 
time component of that cost (Texas Transportation Institute's Urban Mobility report includes fuel wasted as 
well as time lost) is used as part of the report.  

For example, in 1994, the Northridge earthquake in Southern California damaged four bridges on the Santa 
Monica Freeway in Los Angeles. The contract to replace them specified that the work had to be completed 
in 140 days, and the State of California, understanding the loss to the LA economy that was caused by the 
freeway being down, offered a $200,000 per day bonus for each day prior to the 140 days that the section 
opened. The company that won the contract completed the job in 66 days, a full 74 days ahead of schedule. 
The contractor received a $14.8M bonus from Caltrans. The closure of the freeway was estimated to cost 
the economy of the area as much as $1M per day. Caltrans could have saved $14.8M with a more 
traditional contract type, but they understood there was a measurable benefit achieved through the 
expenditure. Or put another way, although it took $14.8M in taxes to provide the bonus, the congestion tax 
on the affected citizens would have been far higher in the absence of the early completion. 



February 20, 2012                                                                                   Page 23 
                                                           
                                    MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                     CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                        
The analysis of SR 714 will included sufficient speed measurement sampling to establish the free flow speed 
of the segment  the average speed, over the length of the segment, including signal delays, achievable in 
the absence of congested conditions, leading to a total uncongested travel time. 

Once current and future estimates of peak season condition traffic volumes are developed, congested 
speeds/travel times, will be estimated using traffic analysis software. The difference between the 
uncongested and congested travel times is the time lost, for each vehicle, due to congestion. This will be 
multiplied by the number of vehicles impacted each year, and an assumed value of time, to develop an 
annual congestion cost. 

Similarly, when low cost improvements are examined, their impact on total travel time will be used to 
estimate the value of the time savings, over the lifespan available to the improvement (ending with the 
programmed capacity expansion). 

                                 




February 20, 2012                                                                                    Page 24 
                                                        
                                    MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                     CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                        
Existing  Roadway  Conditions  (SR  714  from  Citrus  Boulevard  to 
Florida's Turnpike) 
      
The study segment of SR 714 which starts at Citrus Boulevard and ends at Florida's Turnpike, is a 2lane 
undivided arterial with paved shoulders, approximately 1.1 mile long, with three signalized intersections 
and two unsignalized intersections. The posted speed limit along the study segment of SR 714 is 45 mph. 
Sidewalk exists along the north side of SR 714 from Florida's Turnpike to SW 42nd Avenue. Then, the 
sidewalk switches to the south side, and continues up to Citrus Boulevard. The land uses along SR 714 on 
the north side between Florida's Turnpike and SW 42nd Avenue consist of mostly commercial 
developments. The remaining area surrounding the study segment is mostly vacant with some residential 
development on the south side of SR 714. The signalized and unsignalized intersections along the segment 
include: 

         SW Citrus Boulevard (signalized) 
         SW 42nd Avenue (signalized) 
         SW Leighton Farms Avenue/Deggeller Court (unsignalized) 
         Armellini Avenue (unsignalized) 
         Florida's Turnpike Entrance/Martin Downs Boulevard (signalized) 
The following is a brief description of the intersection geometry for each of the intersections listed above. A 
location map is shown in Figure 3 and an aerial map is provided in Appendix A.  

SR 714 at SW Citrus Boulevard 
The intersection of SR 714 and SW Citrus Boulevard is a 4legged signalized intersection with one leftturn 
lane, one through lane and one rightturn lane in each direction. Crosswalks and pedestrian signals exist 
only on the south and east legs. Citrus Boulevard serves as a main roadway that provides access to the City 
of Port St. Lucie to the north and Indiantown to the southwest. The speed limit along SR 714 is 50 mph west 
of the intersection and it changes to 45 mph just east of Citrus Boulevard. The speed limit along Citrus 
Boulevard (both north and south of SR 714) is 45 mph.  

SR 714 at SW 42nd Avenue 
The intersection of SR 714 and SW 42nd Avenue is a 4legged signalized intersection with one leftturn lane, 
one through lane and one rightturn lane in the westbound direction; one leftturn lane and one shared 
through/rightturn lane in the eastbound direction; one shared through/leftturn lane and one rightturn 
lane in the southbound direction and one shared leftturn/through/rightturn lane in the northbound 
direction. Crosswalks and pedestrian signals exist only on the north and west legs. SW 42nd Avenue is a 
twolane roadway that provides access to Sands Commerce Center and other commercial properties to the 
north and residential properties to the south. The speed limit on SW 42nd Avenue is 25 mph south of SR 
714 and 35 mph north of SR 714.




February 20, 2012                                                                                      Page 25 
                                                        
                                      MARTIN
                                           N COUNTY CONG  GESTION MANAG  GEMENT PROCESS     S UPDATE 2011                        
                                       CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard
                                                                          d to Florida's Tur
                                                                                           rnpike Entrance
                                   




                                                                                                                     
                     Figure 3:
                            3  Study Location Ma
                                               ap


Feb
  bruary 20, 2012                                                                                         Page 26
                                    MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                     CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                       
SR 714 at Leighton Farm Road/SW Deggeller Court  
The intersection of SR 714 at Leighton Farms Avenue/Deggeller Court is a 4legged unsignalized intersection 
with one shared leftturn/through/rightturn lane in the northbound and southbound directions; one left
turn lane and one shared through/rightturn lane in the eastbound direction; and one leftturn lane, one 
through lane and one rightturn lane in the westbound direction. The north and south legs of the 
intersection are not aligned with each other (See Appendix A for an aerial photo).  Deggeller Court serves as 
the north leg and provides access to various commercial properties and terminates approximately 900 feet 
to the north. A sidewalk exists along the north side of SR 714, however, no crosswalk is provided. Leighton 
Farms Road to the south provides access to mostly residential properties as well as the Humane Society of 
the Treasure Coast.  

SR 714 at SW Armellini Avenue 
The intersection of SR 714 and SW Armellini Avenue is an unsignalized "T" intersection with one through 
lane, and one rightturn lane in the westbound direction; one leftturn lane and one through lane in the 
eastbound direction; and one shared leftturn/rightturn lane in the southbound direction. A sidewalk exists 
along the north side of SR 714, but no crosswalks are provided at this intersection. Armellini Avenue is a 
minor roadway, which provides access to both commercial and residential properties to the north.  

SR 714 at Florida's Turnpike Entrance/Martin Downs Boulevard 
The intersection of SR 714 and Florida's Turnpike/Martin Downs Boulevard is a 4legged signalized 
intersection with one leftturn lane, one through lane and one rightturn lane in the eastbound and 
westbound directions, and one leftturn lane, two through lanes, and one rightturn lane in the northbound 
and southbound directions. Although the northwest quadrant has sidewalks, the sidewalks do not approach 
the intersection and no pedestrian features exist at this intersection. Martin Downs Boulevard to the north 
provides access to the City of Stuart and the south leg provides access to Florida's Turnpike.  

                                 




February 20, 2012                                                                                    Page 27 
                                              MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                               CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                                    
     Data Collection 
     Crash Data 
     The Florida Department of Transportation (FDOT) and Martin County provided the crash data for the most 
     recent 3.5 year period from January 2008 to August 2011. 

     Traffic Counts  
     Turning Movement Counts  
     Turning movement counts (TMCs) were obtained/collected at all signalized and unsignalized intersections 
     within the study corridor. The Martin County Engineering Department provided AECOM with TMCs for SR 
     714/Citrus Boulevard and SR 714/SW 42nd Avenue intersections. FDOT provided the TMCs for SR 714/ 
     Florida's Turnpike and SR 714/Armellini Avenue intersection. The TMCs for SR 714 and Deggeller 
     Court/Leighton Farms Road intersection were collected by AECOM on October 12, 2011 during the PM peak 
     period (4:00pm to 6:00pm) and on October 13, 2011 during the AM peak period (7:00am to 9:00am), as 
     current counts were not available from either agency at this unsignalized intersection. TMCs were collected 
     at the driveway into Sands Commerce Park (located just west of SW 42nd Avenue) and it was found that 
     the overall volume in and out of this Commerce Park was relatively low (70 to 100 per hour) and a majority 
     of the vehicles were observed to make westbound rightturn into the property and southbound leftturn 
     out of the property. A summary of the existing peak hour volumes is provided in Table 5 and Table 6 and 
     the raw counts are included in Appendix B. As can be seen from Table 5 and Table 6, eastbound/westbound 
     leftturn and southbound rightturn volumes are heavy.  

                                       Table 5: Existing AM Peak Period Turning Movement Counts 

                                     Existing AM Peak Hour Volumes (vehicle per hour) 
 Street Intersecting         Southbound             Westbound             Northbound                          Eastbound 
                                                                                                                                   Total 
       SR 714             U  L     T       R    U    L      T    R  U L           T    R                 U      L    T        R 
Florida's Turnpike        0    104    197    516     1    146    333    38     0    106    273    273    0    541    373     41    2943 
Armellini Avenue          0     9      0     56      0     0     893    53     0     0      0      0     0     82    977      0    2070 
Deggeller Court / 
                          0    17      0      36     0    37     862    36     0     7      0      31    0     40    902      9    1977 
Leighton Farms Road 
SW 42nd Avenue             0     46      0     13    0    4      625    183    0    11     0       6     0     55    862      0    1805 
Citrus Boulevard           0  345       79     119   0    88     263    304    0    47     38     207    0     48    391     60    1773 
U = Uturn; L = Leftturn; T = Through; R = Rightturn 
                                                                                                          




     February 20, 2012                                                                                                      Page 28 
                                                                    
                                                 MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                                  CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                                        
                                         Table 6: Existing PM Peak Period Turning Movement Counts 

                                      Existing PM Peak Hour Volumes (vehicle per hour) 
 Street Intersecting          Southbound             Westbound              Northbound                               Eastbound 
                                                                                                                                          Total 
       SR 714              U  L     T      R     U    L      T    R  U L           T    R                       U      L    T        R 
Florida's Turnpike          8     92    279     624     0    355      328     70     0      62    177    129    0    457    291     95    2967 
Armellini Avenue            0     14     0      85      0     0      1102     50     0       0     0      0     0     39    811      0    2101 
Deggeller Court / 
                            0     43     0      62      0    44      941      45     0      4      0     39     0     35    812      3    2028 
Leighton Farms Road 
SW 42nd Avenue             0  205        0     70    0        6      928      59     0      6      0      5     0     20    641      0    1940 
Citrus Boulevard           0     68     18     18    0       188     434      297    0      53    54     165    0     13    360     44    1712 
U = Uturn; L = Leftturn; T = Through; R = Rightturn 

     TwentyFour Hour Counts 
     Twentyfour hour arterial counts and historic AADTs were provided by the Martin County MPO and FDOT 
     District 4 Planning Office. The data received from Martin County was from their permanent count station 
     (Station No. 145) located east of Citrus Boulevard (See Photo 1). The data received from FDOT was from a 
     portable count station (Station No. 890054) located just west of the bridge over Florida's Turnpike. A 
     review of this data indicates that the AADT for this segment of SR 714 was approximately 15,800 vehicles 
     per day (vpd) in 2010. Peak hour volumes were in the range of 1500 ­ 1800 vehicles per hour (both 
     directions combined). Based on the Martin County Seasonal Factors Report for 2010 (See Appendix F), the 
     highest volumes occurred in March. See table below for a summary of 24hours collected on March 8, 9, 
     and 10, 2011 and complete counts are included in Appendix B.  

                       Table 7: 24hour Counts provided by Martin County MPO for March 8, March 9 & March10, 2011 

                                   Eastbound (EB)                Westbound (WB) 
                                 (vehicles per hour)            (vehicles per hour)                 EB       WB 
           Start Time                                                                                                        Total  
                                                                                                  Average  Average 
                            Tue         Wed       Thu         Tue            Wed          Thu 
            12:00 AM         25          29        30          54             54           65       28            58          86 
             1:00 AM          8           7        10          21             30           23       8             25          33 
             2:00 AM         11          13         8          22             25           28       11            25          36 
             3:00 AM         10          16        13          10             15           13       13            13          26 
             4:00 AM         48          42        55          28             28           23       48            26          74 
             5:00 AM         202         201       194         64             71           77      199            71         270 
             6:00 AM         513         509       517        301            296          282      513           293         806 
             7:00 AM        1076        1065      1035        687            665          708      1059          687         1746 
             8:00 AM         828         831       782        535            578          523      814           545         1359 
             9:00 AM         600         571       552        460            450          466      574           459         1033 
            10:00 AM         508         526       547        428            424          428      527           427         1033 
            11:00 AM         514         585       564        461            493          453      554           469         954 
            12:00 PM         562         530       489        501            527          546      527           525         1023 
             1:00 PM         544         492       477        585            604          576      504           588         1052 
             2:00 PM         614         606       585        638            635          588      602           620         1092 


     February 20, 2012                                                                                                             Page 29 
                                                                        
                                                  MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                                   CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                                              
                                 Eastbound (EB)                         Westbound (WB) 
                               (vehicles per hour)                     (vehicles per hour)                        EB       WB 
          Start Time                                                                                                                          Total  
                                                                                                                Average  Average 
                              Tue       Wed            Thu            Tue             Wed          Thu 
            3:00 PM           618       648            590            755             776          701           619          744             1222 
            4:00 PM           650       650            568            913             934          913           623          920             1363 
            5:00 PM           638       642            562            1002            985          956           614          981             1543 
            6:00 PM           426       478            410            610             628          623           438          620             1058 
            7:00 PM           283       299            238            411             441          401           273          418             691 
            8:00 PM           190       202            200            322             354          313           197          330             527 
            9:00 PM           107       208            180            260             225          226           165          237             402 
           10:00 PM            86        83             94            125             155          174            88          151             239 
           11:00 PM           46         56             62            104             116           116           55          112             167 
            Total            9107       9289           8762           9297            9509         9222          9053         9344            18397 

    Traffic Projections for Future Years 
    Based on the historic data and anticipated future developments in the area, the Martin County MPO 
    suggested that an annual growth rate of 1.8% be used for projecting future traffic (next 10 and 20 years). 
    Therefore, future AADTS and TMCs were projected using a growth rate of 1.8% provided by the MPO.  A 
    summary of the AM and PM peak hour TMCs for the years 2021 and 2031 are provided in Table 8, Table 9, 
    Table 10, and Table 11.  

                                             Table 8: 2021 AM Peak Period Turning Movement Counts 



Intersection of SR         Southbound                          Westbound                       Northbound                     Eastbound 
                                                                                                                                                        Total 
     714 and            U  L     T     R                U      L     T    R                 U  L     T     R             U     L    T    R 
Florida's Turnpike      0      124     235     617      1     175       398         45      0     127    326      326    0    647      446     49       3518 
Armellini Avenue        0       11      0      67       0      0       1067         63      0      0      0        0     0     98     1168      0       2474 
Deggeller Court / 
                        0      20       0       43      0      44      1030         43      0      8       0      37     0    48      1078     11       2363 
Leighton Farms Road 
SW 42nd Avenue          0  55        0      16  0              5       747          219     0     13      0        7     0    66      1030     0        2158 
Citrus Boulevard        0  412  94  142  0                    105      314          105     0     56      45      247    0    57       467     72       2119 
U = Uturn; L = Leftturn; T = Through; R = Rightturn 

                                             Table 9: 2021 PM Peak Period Turning Movement Counts 



 Intersection of SR            Southbound                       Westbound                         Northbound                  Eastbound 
                                                                                                                                                        Total 
      714 and            U       L    T    R             U      L     T    R                 U     L    T     R          U     L    T    R 
Florida's Turnpike      10      110     333     746      0     424      392          84      0     74    212      154    0    546     348     114       3546 
Armellini Avenue        0       17       0      102      0      0       1317         60      0      0     0        0     0     47     969      0        2511 
Deggeller Court / 
                         0      51       0       74      0      53      1125         54      0     5       0      47     0    42      971      4        2424 
Leighton Farms Road 
SW 42nd Avenue           0  245        0     84  0              7       1109          71     0      7      0       6     0    24      766       0       2319 
Citrus Boulevard         0     81     22     22  0             225       519         355     0     63     65      197    0    16      430      53       2046 
U = Uturn; L = Leftturn; T = Through; R = Rightturn 


    February 20, 2012                                                                                                                            Page 30 
                                                                                 
                                                     MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                                      CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                                            
                                            Table 10: 2031 AM Peak Period Turning Movement Counts 



Intersection of SR            Southbound                    Westbound                      Northbound                Eastbound 
                                                                                                                                            Total 
     714 and            U      L    T     R            U    L     T    R              U     L    T     R        U     L     T   R 
Florida's Turnpike      0     149    281      737      1    209     476        54     0    151  390  390        0    773    533     59       4205 
Armellini Avenue        0      13     0        80      0     0     1276        76     0     0    0    0         0    117    1396     0       2958 
Deggeller Court / 
                        0     24      0        51      0    53     1232        51     0     10     0     44     0    57     1289    13       2825 
Leighton Farms Road 
SW 42nd Avenue          0     66      0      19    0         6     893     261        0     16    0       9     0    79     1232    0        2579 
Citrus Boulevard        0  493  113  170  0                 126    376     126        0     67    54     296    0    69      559    86       2533 
U = Uturn; L = Leftturn; T = Through; R = Rightturn 

                                            Table 11: 2031 PM Peak Period Turning Movement Counts 



Intersection of SR            Southbound                    Westbound                      Northbound                Eastbound 
                                                                                                                                             Total 
     714 and            U      L     T    R            U    L     T    R              U     L    T     R        U    L     T    R 
Florida's Turnpike      11    131    399      892      0    507     469        100    0     89    253    184    0    653  416  136           4239 
Armellini Avenue        0     20      0       121      0     0     1574        71     0     0      0      0     0     56  1159  0            3002 
Deggeller Court / 
                        0      61     0        89      0    63     1344        64     0     6      0     56     0    50     1160     4       2898 
Leighton Farms Road 
SW 42nd Avenue           0  293       0      100  0          9     1326        84     0     9     0       7     0    29     916      0       2772 
Citrus Boulevard         0     97     26      26   0        269     620        424    0     76    77     236    0    19     514     63       2446 
U = Uturn; L = Leftturn; T = Through; R = Rightturn 

     Travel Time & Delay Studies  
     AECOM conducted travel time studies along the study corridor during offpeak period to determine travel 
     time and travel speed during uncongested periods. The complete study reports are provided in Appendix C 
     and the results of these studies are discussed in the Analysis section of this report.  

     Signal Timing  
     Signal timing information was provided by the Martin County Engineering Department and is included in 
     Appendix D. 

     RightofWay Information  
     Rightofway maps and plans for SR 714 were provided by FDOT (see Appendix E). A review of these maps 
     indicates that additional R/W is available to add an additional travel lane in each direction. 

     Planned and Programmed Improvements  
     A review of the FDOT Work Program and Martin County Long Range Transportation Plan indicates the 
     following ongoing traffic studies and programmed/planned projects within and surrounding the study 
     limits.  




     February 20, 2012                                                                                                                    Page 31 
                                                                            
                                    MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                     CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                       
FDOT Current and Future Studies/Projects 
        A reconstruction project (FM# 2309782), scheduled for construction in 2015, on CR 714 from 
        Florida's Turnpike east to Mapp Road. The project includes the addition of two through lanes and 
        two leftturn lanes in the east and west directions at the intersection of SR 714 and the Turnpike.  
        A Safety Feasibility Assessment is currently being conducted by AECOM to help improve motorist 
        safety at the intersection of SR 714 and Florida's Turnpike. The study findings/recommendations 
        are included as part of this report.  

Martin County Future Projects 
During the Kickoff meeting for this study, the Martin County MPO stated that the subject corridor is 
scheduled to be widened during the year 20312035 time frame.  

                                 




February 20, 2012                                                                                    Page 32 
                                                       
                                   MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                    CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                       
Field Reviews  
Field reviews were conducted on a typical week day during AM (7:00am to 9:00am) and PM (4:00pm to 
6:00pm) peak periods to assess current traffic conditions. The following is a summary of observations:  

SR 714 at SW Citrus Boulevard 
AM Peak Hour 
    1. The southbound leftturn vehicle queues were observed to extend beyond the leftturn lane and 
       into the southbound through lane. Thus, the leftturn vehicles caused additional delay for 
       southbound through vehicles (See Photo 2). The maximum queue observed was 24 vehicles.  
    2. The southbound leftturn vehicles experienced cycle failures and sometimes it took two to three 
       cycles for these vehicles to clear the intersection.  
    3. The eastbound through queues were observed to be more than 15 vehicles (See Photo 3). Cycle 
       phase failures were observed for this movement.  
    4. Truck traffic was observed in the eastbound and southbound directions. 
    5. Citrus Boulevard north of SR 714 has curb and gutter on both the east and west sides and a 
       sidewalk is provided on the east side all the way to the Citrus Grove Elementary School which is 
       approximately located 1 mile north of SR 714.  
    6. Leftturn movements in all directions are controlled by a "protected/permissive" leftturn phase.  
    7. There appears to be a low spot on the southeast corner. Water may accumulate during rain storms 
       and may potentially impact access to pedestrian push button and crosswalk (See Photo 4) on the 
       southeast corner.  

PM Peak Hour 
    8. A steady flow of westbound rightturn traffic was observed, however the movement operates well 
        with minimal queuing and delay.   
    9. The eastbound through movement operates well with average queues of 1015 vehicles, and all 
        queues cleared during green phase.  
    10. The southeast corner is vacant, the southwest corner has what appears to be trailer/container 
        storage (based on aerial maps), the northeast corner has a Sands Industrial Park sign and there is a 
        Canopy Creek Estate Homes sign on the northwest corner. Based on these signs, it appears both the 
        northeast and northwest corners are potential lots for future developments.  
    11. It is possible that the westbound rightturn radius mat not be adequate for trucks. Tire marks were 
        observed on the sidewalk and curb (See Photo 5) on the northeast corner. 

MidDay 
    12. The Citrus Grove Elementary School is located approximately 1 mile north of SR 714 (See Photo 6). 
    13. The southbound leftturn vehicle queue was observed to extend into the through lane for 10 to 15 
        minutes around 2:00pm after the Citrus Grove Elementary School was released. During this time, a 
        maximum queue of 14 vehicles was observed. Red light violations were observed by southbound 
        leftturn vehicles.  


February 20, 2012                                                                                   Page 33 
                                                       
                                   MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                    CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                     
   14. A majority of the Citrus Grove Elementary School buses were observed to turn left to travel east on 
       SR 714 (See Photo 7). 

SR 714 at SW 42nd Avenue  
   1. During the AM peak period, a maximum southbound leftturn queue of six vehicles was observed.  
   2. The eastbound through traffic queues were observed to be in excess of 20 vehicles. Occasionally, 
       the eastbound through queues were observed to extend up to Citrus Boulevard (See Photo 8). 
       Occasional red light violations were observed by eastbound through vehicles during AM peak 
       period. 
   3. The westbound traffic queues were observed to extend up to Deggeller Court. While the 
       westbound queues were long, they cleared every cycle.  
   4. During the PM Peak, the maximum southbound leftturn queue observed was 13 vehicles and cycle 
       failures were observed for this movement. 
   5. During the PM peak, westbound traffic queues were observed to extend past Deggeller Court, with 
       queues in excess of 25 vehicles. Occasionally, the queues would extend to the bridge over the 
       Florida Turnpike (See Photo 10 and Photo 11).  
   6. The westbound rightturn radius appears to be tight. Some trucks were observed to encroach into 
       the southbound leftturn lane while turning right onto SW 42 Avenue. On one occasion, a 
       southbound leftturn vehicle had to backup in order to let a truck complete the westbound right
       turn. Tire marks were observed on the curb (see Photo 9), possibly related to westbound rightturn 
       truck traffic. 
   7. There are a few commercial establishments to the north. A majority of the trucks were observed to 
       make westbound rightturn on to SW 42nd Avenue and southbound leftturn from SW 42nd Avenue 
       on to SR 714 (See Photo 12), with some making eastbound leftturn on to SW 42nd Avenue.  
   8. The pavement markings on the north leg were observed to be faded. 
   9. A pedestrian stated that eastbound vehicles run red lights during the morning peak period.  
   10. A truck stopped in the southbound rightturn lane was observed to actuate the southbound green 
       phase. It is possible that the shadow from this truck was cast into the leftturn lane thus causing the 
       signal phase to be actuated.   
   11. The eastbound and westbound leftturn movements are controlled by "protected/permissive" 
       phase while the southbound and northbound leftturn traffic is controlled by permissive leftturn 
       phases.  
   12. Northbound traffic volumes were relatively low. 
   13. There were occasional cycle failures for the westbound through movement. Approximately 4 to 5 
       cycle failures were observed between 5:20pm to 5:40pm.  

SR 714 at Deggeller Court/Leighton Farms Road 
   1. In general, the northbound/southbound traffic operated with minimal delays and queuing.  
   2. The maximum southbound leftturn queue observed during the PM peak was 4 vehicles.  
   3. The majority of northbound traffic from Leighton Farms Road was observed to turn right to travel 
      eastbound on SR 714.  

February 20, 2012                                                                                    Page 34 
                                                       
                                    MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                     CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                    
    4. A potential drainage issue/sand buildup was observed in the vicinity of the pedestrian ramps on 
       the northwest and northeast corners of Deggeller Court (See Photo 13).  

SR 714 at Armellini Avenue  
    1. The bridge over the Turnpike partially restricts the view of the eastbound traffic for southbound 
       leftturn motorists at Armellini Avenue (see Photo 20). 
    2. During both the AM and PM peak periods, there were times when the eastbound leftturn queues 
       from the eastbound leftturn from the SR 714/ Florida Turnpike intersection backed up past 
       Armellini Avenue.  
    3. A sign facing southbound traffic states "All Armellini Trucks Right Turns Only No Exceptions" (See 
       Photo 21). 

SR 714 at Florida's Turnpike  
    1. During the AM peak period, eastbound leftturn queues were observed to extend up to the bridge 
       over the Turnpike. The queues extended beyond the turn lane and some vehicles were observed to 
       stop in the striped median. A maximum queue of over 25 vehicles was observed (See Photo 14).  
    2. During the PM peak period, the maximum eastbound leftturn queue observed was 16 cars with, an 
       average queue of 1015 vehicles (See Photo 15). 
    3. Cycle failures were observed for eastbound leftturn vehicles during the AM and PM peak periods. 
    4. During the PM Peak period, the maximum southbound rightturn queue observed was more than 
       18 vehicles with an average of 15 vehicles (See Photo 16).  
    5. The shrubbery in the northeast corner partially restricts the southbound rightturn motorists' view 
       of westbound traffic (see Photo 17). 
    6. Standing water (along southbound and westbound shoulders in the NW corner) and broken 
       sidewalk were observed in the northwest corner of the intersection (see Photo 18) 
    7. Pavement markings on the west leg are faded. 
    8. A maximum westbound leftturn queue of 12 vehicles was observed. Occasionally westbound left
       turn queues extended into the painted median area (See Photo 19).  
    9. Westbound leftturn traffic was observed using the median area to bypass the through queues.  

                                 




February 20, 2012                                                                                  Page 35 
                                                      
                                    MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                     CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                          
Analysis  
Arterial Level of Service Analysis 
Based on the "Martin County 2010 Roadway Level of Service Inventory Report" (excerpt included in 
Appendix F), the Annual Average Daily Traffic (AADT) along SR 714 within the study limits was 15,816 
vehicles per day in 2010 and the peak hour directional volume was 917 vehicle per hour (vph). The report 
indicates a generalized Level of Service (LOS) of D for this corridor. 

An arterial LOS analysis was performed using FDOT ARTPLAN software for the existing (2011) and future 
(2021 and 2031) years. ARTPLAN calculates LOS based on FDOT Generalized Level of Service Tables.  K (0.1) 
and D (0.58) factors and the 2010 AADT were obtained from the "Martin County 2010 Level of Service 
Report" and the T factor (6%) was obtained from the 2010 Historical AADT Report for Station 890054 
provided by FDOT. AADTs for current (2011) and future years (2021 and 2031) were calculated using a 
growth rate of 1.8% as directed by the Martin County MPO. Table 12 summarizes the LOS obtained from 
ARTPLAN for the existing and future years. ARTPLAN outputs for existing and future years are included in 
Appendix G.

                                       Table 12: Arterial LOS form ARTPLAN 

                  Level of Service (LOS)         Existing        Future year    Future Year 
                  for the study segment           2011              2021           2031 
                         of SR 714                  D                  D             F 

It should be noted that ARTPLAN calculates LOS based on a variety of generalized conditions, such as 
number of lanes, roadway class, area type, K factor, D factor, and highlevel signal timing information. A 
detailed analysis is required to assess intersection LOS and to determine if there are any critical movements 
within the study areas. Therefore, traffic analysis software (Synchro) was used to perform a detailed 
operational analysis of the intersections.  

Intersection Level of Service Analysis  
Intersection LOS analysis was performed using Synchro (Version 7.0) software to evaluate the intersection 
performance during the AM and PM peak hours under existing and future traffic conditions. The major 
intersection characteristics used in Synchro include traffic volumes, signal phasing/timing information, and 
roadway geometry. Signal timing information was provided by the Martin County Traffic Engineering 
Division, and roadway geometry such as number of lanes and turn lane lengths were obtained using web
based aerials photos. Synchro uses this information and other input data in conjunction with procedures 
documented in the Highway Capacity Manual to estimate Level of Service (LOS), delay and queue lengths. 
Consistent with the scope, the following scenarios were analyzed using Synchro: 

        Existing conditions 
        Future Traffic Conditions (years 2021 and 2031) without Improvements 
        Existing and Future Conditions (Existing, 2021 and 2031) with Signal Timing Improvements 
            o Option 1: Optimize splits and offsets  

February 20, 2012                                                                                    Page 36 
                                                          
                                     MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                      CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                        
             o Option 2: Optimize cycle length, splits, and offsets  
             o Option 3: Use a cycle length of 160 sec (to be consistent with the cycle length that is being 
                 used at the Turnpike intersection); Optimize splits and offsets 
         Future Traffic Conditions (years 2021 and 2031) with Signal Timing improvements and Roadway 
         Improvements. 

Existing Conditions 
Table 13 shows the overall LOS for all study intersections for both AM and PM peak periods. The Highway 
Capacity Manual (HCM) based LOS output sheets from the Synchro analyses are included in Appendix G. 

                               Table 13: HCM based LOS summary for existing conditions 


            Intersection of               Overall LOS                        Critical Movements 
              SR 714 and            AM Peak       PM Peak             AM Peak                  PM Peak  
       Citrus Boulevard                  D             C        EB Through, SB Left              None 
       SW 42nd Avenue                    B             D             EB Through           WB Through, SB Left 
       Turnpike Entrance                 E             D                EB Left             EB Left, SB Right 
 

Table 13 shows that during the AM and PM peak hours all study intersections are currently operating at LOS 
D or better, except the intersection of SR 714 and Turnpike, which currently operates at LOS E during the 
AM peak hour. Table 13 also shows all critical lane movements at each intersection. These critical 
movements were determined based on LOS E or F, excessive delays, long queues or phase failures. 

Some minor approach movements are currently experiencing LOS E or F due to shorter green times during 
AM and/or PM peak hours. However, these movements were observed to operate with minimal queuing 
during the field observations and volumes were relatively low. Therefore, these movements were not 
considered as critical movements. 

Future Traffic Conditions (years 2021 and 2031) without Improvements 
In order to analyze the intersection operations (without any improvements) for the future years 2021 and 
2031, Synchro models were developed using future volumes, existing geometry and existing signal timing. 
The intersection of SR 714 and Turnpike will be widened as part of a widening project programmed for FY 
2015 (FM# 230978.2). Therefore, the new lane configuration for this intersection (two leftturn lanes and 
two through lanes in the east/west directions) was used in the Synchro analysis for all future scenarios. LOS 
summary for the years 2021 and 2031 is presented in Table 14 for both AM and PM peak hours. The HCM 
based LOS output sheets from the Synchro analyses are included in Appendix G.  

 

 




February 20, 2012                                                                                           Page 37 
                                                             
                                    MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                     CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                          
                          Table 14: HCM based LOS summary for future years 2021 and 2031 

                                                               Level of Service (LOS) 
                         Intersection of 
                                                              2021                    2031 
                           SR 714 and 
                                                        AM            PM        AM            PM 
                        Citrus Boulevard                 F            C          F            D 
                               nd
                        SW 42  Avenue                    C            F          D            F 
                       Turnpike Entrance                 D            D          D            E 

The following observations can be noted from Table 14 and LOS output sheets included in Appendix G. 
     The intersection of SR 714 and Citrus Boulevard is expected to operate at LOS F during the AM peak 
        hour in 2021. Also, eastbound through and southbound left turn movements at this intersection are 
         expected to operate at LOS F during this time period.  
     The intersection of SR 714 and SW 42nd Avenue is expected to operate at LOS F during the PM peak 
        hour in 2021. Also, westbound through and southbound leftturn movements are expected to 
        operate at LOS F during this time period. In addition, southbound leftturn movement is expected 
         to operate at LOS E during the AM peak hour. 
     As a result of the new lane configuration at SR 714 and Turnpike intersection, the overall 
        intersection and all movements (with the exception of southbound rightturn during PM peak) are 
        expected to operate at LOS D in 2021.  
     The following intersections are expected to operate at unacceptable level of service (LOS E or F) 
        during both AM and/or PM peak hours in 2031.  
             o Citrus Boulevard intersection (AM Peak) 
             o SW 42 Avenue (PM peak) 
             o Florida's Turnpike (PM Peak) 
         Also, the following traffic movements are expected to operate at unacceptable level of service (LOS 
         E or F) in 2031: 
             o Citrus Boulevard Intersection: eastwest through; southbound leftturn; northbound and 
                  westbound rightturn movements 
             o SW 42nd Avenue Intersection: eastwest through and southbound leftturn movements 
             o Florida's Turnpike Intersection: eastbound leftturn; westbound through and southbound 
                  rightturn movements  

Existing and Future Conditions (Existing, 2021 and 2031) with Signal Timing Improvements 
Signal timing optimization was used as a strategy to improve the corridor operations. The following three 
optimization options were considered to identify the level of optimization needed to achieve the best 
results:   

        Option 1 ­ Keep the existing cycle length, optimize splits and offsets 
        Option 2 ­ Optimize cycle length, splits, and offsets 
        Option 3 ­ Change cycle length to 160 seconds, optimize splits and offsets 


February 20, 2012                                                                                   Page 38 
                                                          
                                    MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                     CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                          
All three optimization options yielded similar results. The Martin County Traffic Engineering Department 
suggested using Option 3 as the existing cycle length for the SR 714/Turnpike intersection is 160 seconds. 
The results for Option 3 are presented in Table 15 and HCM based LOS output sheets from Synchro analysis 
are included in Appendix G.  

                             Table 15: HCM based LOS Summary for Optimized Conditions 

                                                    Level of Service (LOS) for optimized conditions 
                  Intersection            Peak 
                                                                         Option 3 
                   SR 714 and             Hour 
                                                       Existing           2021            2031 
                                           AM             D                 D               F 
                  Citrus Blvd 
                                           PM             C                 C               C 
                                           AM             B                 C              D 
                  SW 42 Ave 
                                           PM             D                 E               F 
                                           AM             E                 D              D 
              Turnpike Entrance 
                                           PM                D                D             E 

Based on the results, it can be observed that LOS can be improved for 2021 traffic conditions by optimizing 
the signal timing with the exception of the SR 714/SW 42nd Avenue intersection during the PM peak period. 
Also, the analysis conducted with 2031 traffic conditions indicates that all three intersections are expected 
to operate at an unacceptable LOS either in AM or PM peak in 2031. Therefore, further evaluation was 
conducted to determine roadway improvements needed to improve LOS in 2021 and beyond. 

Future Traffic (years 2021 and 2031) with Signal Timing Optimization and Roadway 
Improvements 
As discussed above, signal timing alone is not adequate to operate the subject segment of SR 714 at an 
acceptable LOS. Therefore, the following additional roadway improvements (in conjunction with the 
already programmed improvements at SR 714/Turnpike intersection) were evaluated: 

        SR 714 and Citrus Boulevard Intersection  
            o Add one through lane approaching the intersection and drop the lane 500 to 1000 ft east of 
                the intersection.  
            o Modify the existing lane configuration on the southbound approach to accommodate one 
                left, one shared left/through, and one rightturn lane. 
        SR 714 and SW 42nd Avenue Intersection  
            o Add one through lane 500 to 1000 ft east and west of the intersection.  
            o Modify the existing lane configuration for southbound traffic to one leftturn lane and one 
                shared through/rightturn lane. 
        SR 714 and Turnpike Intersection  
            o Modify the existing lane configuration for southbound traffic to one rightturn lane and one 
                shared through/rightturn lane. 

Figure 4 shows the lane schematics of the abovementioned improvements. 
February 20, 2012                                                                                      Page 39 
                                                          
                                          MARTIN COUN
                                          M           NTY CONGESTION MANAG    GEMENT PRO   OCESS UPDAT  TE 2011                           
                                            CMP for SR 714 from Cit
                                                                  trus Boulevar
                                                                              rd to Florida's           ntrance 
                                                                                            s Turnpike En
                                                               




                                                                                                                                
Figure 4: Prop
             posed lane confi
                            iguration 

The results of the analys
                        sis are summaarized in Tabl
                                                  le 16 for future years 20211 and 2031. The
                                                                                          T  Highway 
Capacity Manual (HCM) based LOS ou   utput sheets from Synchro  o analysis are
                                                                             e included in Appendix
                                                                                           A         G. From
                                                                                                        F     
Table 16 an
          nd LOS output              n Appendix G,
                        ts included in            , the following observation ns can be notted: 

         All signalized int
                          tersections within the stud
                                                    dy area are ex           perate at LOS D or better in 2021 
                                                                 xpected to op
         andd 2031 with proposed
                          p            dway improve
                                    road            ements. How wever, NB andd SB movements which are  e minor 
         moovements at the SR 714/SW   W 42  Avenue intersection
                                            nd
                                                                 n are expecte
                                                                             ed to operate
                                                                                         e LOS E due too 
           orter green tim
         sho               mes allocated
                                       d to these moovements.  
                               Table 16: HCM
                                           M based LOS Su
                                                        ummary with Ge
                                                                     eometric Improv
                                                                                   vements 

                                                                        Lev
                                                                          vel of Service
                                                                                       e (LOS) 
                              Intersection of 
                                                                       2021
                                                                          1                  2031 
                                SR 714 annd 
                                                              AM               PM      A  
                                                                                       AM            PM
                                                                                                      M 
                             Citrus Boule
                                        evard                     D            C        D            C 
                                     nd
                                      enue 
                             SW 42  Ave                           B            C        B            C 
                            Turnpike Ent
                                       trance                     D            D        D            D 

In summaryy, optimized signal
                       s                         d roadway im
                               timing and proposed          mprovements appear to be
                                                                                   e adequate in 
          t  intersection LOS.   
improving the

Crash Da
       ata Review
                w  
The crash data
          d  received from the Ma   artin County Traffic
                                                 T       Engineering Department for the period from 
January 1, 2008
           2                        w  reviewed. A summary of the crash data
                 to August 31, 2011 was                                    d  is provid             1   
                                                                                       ded in Table 17.

February 2
         20, 2012                                                                                               P
                                                                                                                Page 40 
                                                               
                                           MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                            CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                                  
                                   Table 17: Crash Summary (January 1, 2008 to August 31, 2011) 

                                                 Crash Frequency by Location 
                 Street Intersecting SR 714            RE       LT       A       RT      SS        ROR    O     Total 
       Florida's Turnpike                               54      12       4       4        3         3     10     90 
       Armellini Avenue                                 5                2       1                        2      10 
       Deggeller Court / Leighton Farms Road            2        1       1                                5       9 
       SW 42nd Avenue                                   14       1                        3               4      22 
       Citrus Boulevard                                 18       2               1                  3     3      27 
       Total                                            93      16       7       6        6         6     24    158 
       RE = Rearend; LT=Leftturn; A=Angle; RT=Rightturn; SS=Sideswipe; ROR=Runoffroad; O=All Other 

          A total of 158 crashes occurred along the corridor during the referenced period, resulting in one 
          fatality and 13 injuries.  
          A significant portion of those crashes were rearend crashes (93 crashes) followed by all other type 
          crashes (24 crashes) and leftturn crashes (16 crashes).  
          One fatality and 9 of the 13 injuries occurred at the intersection of SR 714/Florida's Turnpike.  
          Approximately 88% of the total crashes occurred at signalized intersections, with most occurring at 
          the intersection of SR 714/Florida's Turnpike (90 crashes), followed by SR 714/Citrus Boulevard (27 
          crashes) and SR 714/SW 42nd Avenue (22 crashes).  
          The intersection of SR 714 and Florida's Turnpike was listed on the FDOT High Crash List for the 
          years 2007, 2008, and 2009 with a confidence level of 99.99%. FDOT recently conducted a safety 
          study to assess the feasibility of implementing safety improvements to enhance motorist safety at 
          this intersection. This study recommended dual east/west leftturn lanes and "protected only" left
          turn phasing to reduce leftturn crashes.  

Travel Time & Delay Studies  
As specified by the Martin County MPO, Travel Time and Delay Studies were conducted during the offpeak 
period (11:00am to 12:00pm), on a typical weekday, during sunny weather conditions. Ridge Engineering's 
GPS2LT software in conjunction with a GPS receiver and laptop computer was used to collect all field data. 
The field data was then processed using Ridge Engineering's PCTravel software. PCTravel uses the GPS 
data collected in the field to generate travel time/delay statistics. PCTravel calculates the number of travel 
time runs required for statistically significant results, based on the procedure outlined in the ITE Traffic 
Engineering Handbook. Based on this, the number of runs required was 9 for both eastbound and 
westbound directions. AECOM conducted 13 eastbound runs and 12 westbound runs. Therefore, the field 
data meets sample size requirements based on a 95% confidence level and 1 mph permitted error. Figure 5 
provides a standard layout with Start and End points. Each run was conducted in the same manner and was 
approximately the same length.   




February 20, 2012                                                                                                  Page 41 
                                                                  
                                          MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                           CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                                    




                                                                                                                    
Figure 5: General Layout for the Travel Time and Delay Studies  

The key statistics generated include travel time, number of stops, and average speed. In addition, Speed 
versus Distance and Time versus Speed profiles were also generated. The following sections summarize the 
results for each direction of travel (eastbound/westbound). See Appendix C for complete reports.   

Eastbound Travel Time Studies   
A summary of calculated travel times for each of the 13 runs is provided in Table 18.  The average travel 
time for eastbound traffic was 154.4 seconds, as shown in Table 20.  As can be seen on Table 18, the travel 
time from SW 42nd Avenue to Florida's Turnpike varied significantly from run to run, while the travel time 
from Citrus Boulevard to SW 42nd Avenue was more consistent with only a few runs being significantly 
higher or lower. Also, the average speed from SW 42nd Avenue to Citrus Boulevard was approximately 5 
mph higher than the segment between 42nd Avenue and Turnpike. Implementing a coordinated signal 
system including the Turnpike intersection may help improve travel speeds along the corridor.  The average 
speed in the eastbound direction was determined to be 36.7 mph, as shown in Table 20. 

Westbound Travel Time Studies 
A summary of calculated travel times for each of the 12 runs is provided in Table 21. The average travel 
time for westbound traffic was 177.6 seconds (as shown in Table 23).  While the travel time from SW 42nd 
Avenue to Citrus Boulevard was more consistent, the travel time from Florida's Turnpike to SW 42nd Avenue 
varied from run to run. The average speed in the westbound direction was determined to be 31.2 mph, as 
shown in Table 22, which is below the posted speed of 45 mph. A coordinated signal system to include the 
Turnpike intersection may help improve travel speeds along the corridor.   

Speed/Distance Profiles and Time/Space Trajectories 
In addition to the travel time and average speed statistics, PCTravel software produces speed/distance 
profiles and time/space trajectories.  Figure 6 and Figure 7 show the eastbound and westbound 
speed/distance profiles, respectively.  On these graphs, the thin blue lines represent the speed profile for 
each of the runs conducted and the thicker black line represents the average of all the runs. As can be seen 
from these graphs, the main cause of delay along the corridor is the three signalized intersections, and 
associated stops. As the graph indicates, most of the delays or stops are associated with the signal at the 
Turnpike Intersection. As such, this intersection negatively impacts the overall travel speed along the study 
corridor. Figure 8 and Figure 9 show the eastbound and westbound time/space trajectories profiles, 
respectively. As in the speed/distance profiles, the time/space trajectory for each run is represented by the 
thin blue lines, while the straight green line shows the trajectory for  the normal speed, which for this study 
is 45 mph. These graphs show that for the majority of runs, the intersection of SR 714 and Florida's 
Turnpike is the major cause for delay.  



February 20, 2012                                                                                      Page 42 
                                                                    
                                                                      MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                                                       CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                                     
                                           Table 18: Travel Time Summary for Eastbound SR 714  
                                                          Travel Time by Run 
Node                          EB    EB Run  EB Run  EB Run  EB Run  EB Run  EB Run  EB Run  EB Run  EB Run  EB Run  EB Run  EB Run 
       Length  Node Names 
  #                          Run 1     2       3       4          5        6   7       8       9      10      11      12      13 
  1      0     Start           0       0       0       0          0        0   0       0       0       0       0       0       0 
  2     1753  Citrus Blvd      29     24      25      24         24       25   24     29      28      24      24      24      24 
  3     2670  SW 42nd Ave      43     40      40      42         39       57   39     75      87      39      43      45      39 
  4     3267  FL Turnpike     100     47      75      57         54      104   70     66      77      65      57      68      49 
  5     625  End               16     11      14      11         10       15   13     10      14      12      13      13      10 
Total  8315                   188    122     154     134        127      201  146    180     206     140     137     150     122 
                                        Table 19: Summary of Average Speeds for Eastbound SR 714  
                                                            Average Speed 
Node                         EB Run  EB Run  EB Run  EB Run  EB Run  EB Run  EB Run  EB Run  EB Run  EB Run  EB Run  EB Run  EB Run 
       Length  Node Names 
  #                             1       2       3       4        5       6      7       8       9      10      11      12      13 
  1      0     Start            0       0       0       0        0       0      0       0       0       0       0       0       0 
  2     1753  Citrus Blvd     41.3    50.1    48.1    51.0     50.9     49.6  50.8    41.5    42.8    50.9    50.4    51.3    50.6 
  3     2670  SW 42nd Ave     43.0    45.3    45.9    42.8     46.1     31.4  46.8    24.3    21.0    46.2    41.9    40.0    46.5 
  4     3267  FL Turnpike     21.9    47.2    29.4    39.3     41.8     21.4  31.5    33.9    28.9    34.4    39.2    32.7    45.9 
  5     625  End              27.2    39.7    30.9    39.4     39.8     28.6  32.6    42.7    29.5    34.6    33.4    33.8    41.0 
Total  8315                   30.2    46.5    36.9    42.5     44.7     28.3  38.9    31.6    27.5    40.6    41.5    38.0    46.6 
                                 Table 20: Summary of Travel Time and Average Speed for Eastbound SR 714 

                                        Eastbound Travel Time and Delay Study Summary of Results 
                                 Node                              Travel     # of  Average       Total 
                                        Length    Node Names 
                                   #                                Time     Stops   Speed        Delay 
                                   1       0    Start                 0         0       0           0 
                                   2     1753  Citrus Blvd          25.2       0.0    47.4         0.4 
                                   3     2670  SW 42nd Ave          48.3       0.2    37.7         8.1 
                                   4     3267  FL Turnpike          68.4       0.5    32.6        18.7 
                                   5      625  End                  12.5       0.0    34.2         2.5 
                                 Total  8315                       154.4       0.7    36.7        29.6 

   February 20, 2012                                                                                                              Page 43 
                                                                       MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                                                        CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                                       
                                          Table 21: Travel Time Summary for Westbound SR 714  
                                                            Travel Time by Run 
Node                           WB         WB        WB       WB         WB      WB   WB        WB            WB       WB       WB      WB 
       Length  Node Names 
  #                           Run 1      Run 2  Run 3  Run 4  Run 5  Run 6  Run 7  Run 8                    Run 9    Run 10   Run 11  Run 12
  1      0     Start            0           0        0         0         0       0     0        0             0         0       0        0 
  2     784  FL Turnpike        24        101        76       16         47     71    16       15            111       29       74      17 
  3     3209  SW 42nd Ave       62         59        73       49         60     57    55       49             57       61       78      56 
  4     2647  Citrus Blvd       47         46        53       39         51     52    39       39             43       41       45      42 
  5     1497  End               31         22        24       21         27     23    21       21             23       21       22      25 
Total  8137                    164        228       226      125        185     203  131       124           234      152      219     140 

                                       Table 22: Summary of Average Speeds for Westbound SR 714  
                                                             Average Speed 
Node                          WB          WB       WB       WB       WB     WB          WB        WB         WB       WB       WB      WB 
       Length  Node Names 
  #                          Run 1       Run 2    Run 3    Run 4  Run 5  Run 6         Run 7     Run 8      Run 9    Run 10   Run 11  Run 12
  1      0     Start           0           0         0       0        0      0           0         0           0       0         0      0 
  2     784  FL Turnpike      23.3        5.3       7.0     33.6    11.6    7.8         33.6      38.2        5.0     18.4      7.3    32.8 
  3     3209  SW 42nd Ave     35.2        37.2     30.1     44.6    36.5    38.2        40.2      44.5       38.2     36.0     28.0    39.0 
  4     2647  Citrus Blvd     38.2        39.1     34.5     47.1    35.3    35.1        45.7      45.6       42.2     44.1     40.2    43.0 
  5     1497  End             34.1        47.2     42.0     49.0    39.2    44.8        49.1      49.4       44.7     49.8     47.5    40.7 
Total  8137                   34.1        24.4     24.6     44.7    30.2    27.5        42.4      44.9       23.8     36.7     25.5    39.7 
                             Table 23: Summary of Travel Time and Average Speed for Westbound SR 714 

                                       Westbound Travel Time and Delay Study Summary of Results 
                             Node                                 Travel       # of    Average     Total 
                                    Length  Node Names 
                               #                                   Time       Stops     Speed      Delay 
                               1      0    Start                     0          0         0          0 
                               2     784  FL Turnpike              49.8        0.6       10.7      37.7 
                               3     3209  SW 42nd Ave             59.7        0.2       36.7      10.7 
                               4     2647  Citrus Blvd             44.8        0.1       40.3       4.8 
                               5     1497  End                     23.4        0.0       43.6       1.2 
                             Total  8137                          177.6        0.8       31.2      54.3 

February 20, 2012                                                                                                                    Page 44 
                                                                    
                                                    MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE     U        2011                           
                                                          or SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard t
                                                     CMP fo                               to Florida's Turnp
                                                                                                           pike Entrance 
                                                 




                                                                                                                                  

                     Figure
                          e 6: Speed/Distan
                                          nce Profiles of All Eastbound Runs 

Fe
 ebruary 20, 2012
                2                                                                                                        Page 45 
                                                 
                                                    MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE     U        2011                           
                                                          or SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard t
                                                     CMP fo                               to Florida's Turnp
                                                                                                           pike Entrance 
                                                 




                                                                                                                                   

                     Figure 7: Speed/Distan
                                          nce Profiles of all Westbound Run
                                                                          ns 

Fe
 ebruary 20, 2012
                2                                                                                                        Page 46 
                                                 
                                                    MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE     U        2011                           
                                                          or SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard t
                                                     CMP fo                               to Florida's Turnp
                                                                                                           pike Entrance 
                                                 




                     Figure
                          e 8: Time/Space Trajectories
                                          T            of all Eastbound Runs 

Fe
 ebruary 20, 2012
                2                                                                                                        Page 47 
                                                 
                                                    MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE     U        2011                           
                                                          or SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard t
                                                     CMP fo                               to Florida's Turnp
                                                                                                           pike Entrance 
                                                 




                     Figure 9: Time/Space Trajectories
                                          T            of All
                                                            l Westbound Run
                                                                          ns

Fe
 ebruary 20, 2012
                2                                                                                                        Page 48 
                                                 
                                      MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                       CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                            
Estimated Annual Cost Due to Congestion 
The results of travel time and delay studies indicate that during the offpeak times, the average travel times 
were 154 seconds and 178 seconds in the eastbound and westbound directions, respectively. The travel 
times during peak periods were estimated using Synchro. As can be seen from Table 24, the estimated 
travel times for both AM and PM peak hours were in excess of 220 seconds. The delays due to traffic 
congestion are the difference in travel times between offpeak and peak periods. Costs due to congestion 
were calculated based on an estimated cost of $16 per hour of person travel as per TTI's 2011 Urban 
Mobility Report. As shown in Table 24 below, the estimated cost due to congestion is approximately 
$250,000 per year.  

                                 Table 24: Summary of Cost Due to Congestion 

               Off                     Congestion 
                       Peak Period                                     VehicleHours      Annual 
              Peak                      Delay per        Peak Hour                                    Annual 
 Travel                Travel Time                                     Delay in Peak  VehicleHours 
             Travel                   Vehicle (sec.)      Volume                                    Congestion  
Direction                 (sec.)                                         Hour (2)       Delay (3) 
              Time                         (1)                                                       Cost (4) 
             (sec.) 
                       AM      PM      AM      PM       AM      PM     AM      PM      AM         PM 
East          154      237     220     83       66      1007    633    23.2    11.6    6040  3020 
                                                                                                            $250,000 
West          178      239     231     61       53      669     940    11.3    13.8    2950  3600 
   Notes:  1) Peak period travel time minus offpeak period travel time                                       
           2) Delay in seconds per vehicle x vehicles per hour / 3600                                        
           3) Peak hour vehiclehours delay x 5 Days per week x 52 weeks per year                             
           4) Annual vehiclehours delay x $16 per hour                                                       
                                                            

Access Management  
The subject corridor is just over one mile long with three signalized intersections, two unsignalized 
intersections, and four major driveways. Since the subject segment of SR 714 is a 2lane undivided road, 
access in/out of adjacent properties is not controlled. The signalized intersections are all four legged 
intersections, which allow all movements. Currently, the unsignalized intersection of SR 714 and Armellini 
Avenue is a Tintersection (See Photo 21) which restricts southbound trucks to "Rightturn Only", by 
signage. The unsignalized intersection of SR 714 and Deggeller Court/Leighton Farms Road is a four legged 
intersection which allows all movements. The four major driveways include:  

           A driveway at the Shell Gas station just west of Martin Downs Boulevard. The southbound 
           movement is restricted to "Rightturn Only" by signage.  
           The entrance to Interstate Self Storage located just east of SW 42nd Avenue. No access restrictions 
           exist at this driveway.  
           The entrance to W. Kost, Inc Roof Trusses, which is east of SW 42nd Avenue and west of the 
           Interstate Self Storage entrance. No access restrictions exist at this driveway.  
           The front entrance to Sands Commerce Center located just west of SW 42nd Avenue has no 
           restrictions.   

February 20, 2012                                                                                               Page 49 
                                    MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                     CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                        
Performance Monitoring Plan
A Performance Monitoring Plan is a critical element of the Congestion Management Program (CMP) and 
serves as a road map for evaluating the effectiveness of implemented congestion mitigation measures. The 
action of developing performance measures is a highly iterative component of the CMP, and typically 
consists of three major activities: 

        Selecting performance measures, 
        Developing a data collection plan, and 
        Refining objectives and performance measures. 

Performance Measures 
The performance measures should be defined in a manner that allows practitioners to focus on specific 
aspects of congestion.  An ideal performance measure should be Specific, Measurable, Agreed, Realistic, 
and Timebound and should consider growth trends, fiscal constraints, and other factors to ensure the 
objectives are realistic. 
 
There are a wide range of measures that can be considered for use in the CMP. The following section 
discusses several types of measures that address different components of congestion, as taken from the 
FHWA Congestion Management Guidebook (Report No. FHWAHEP11011). 
 
Traditionally, in regional longrange transportation planning, MPOs have used volumetocapacity (V/C) 
ratios or level of service (LOS) indicators as their primary metrics for analyzing existing and forecasted 
congestion on roadways and at intersections. However, there are several components of the concept of 
congestion that cannot be captured by V/C ratios and LOS. 

Four major dimensions of congestion (see Figure 9) include the following: 
    Intensity ­ The relative severity of congestion that affects travel. Intensity has traditionally been 
       measured through indicators such as V/C ratios or LOS measures that consistently relate the 
       different levels of congestion experienced on roadways. 
    Duration ­ The amount of time the congested conditions persist before returning to an 
       uncongested state. 
    Extent ­ The number of system users or components (e.g. vehicles, pedestrians, transit routes, lane 
       miles) affected by congestion, for example the proportion of system network components (roads, 
       bus lines, etc.) that exceed a defined performance measure target. 
    Variability ­ The changes in congestion that occur on different days or at different times of day. 
       When congestion is highly variable due to nonrecurring conditions, such as a roadway with a high 
       number of traffic accidents causing delays, it impacts the reliability of the system. 
 




February 20, 2012                                                                                    Page 50 
                                                        
                                   MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                    CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                       




                                                                                  
       Figure 10: Three Dimensions of Congestion (Source: FHWA Congestion Management Guide) 

 
The four components of congestion discussed here are not, however, all inclusive of the range of issues that 
could be considered in selecting performance measures for the CMP. A wide variety of potential CMP 
performance measures, including multimodal measures, are discussed in the following sections of the 
report. 
 
                                                    
                                                    
                                                    
                                                    
                                                    
                                                    
                                                    
                                                    

February 20, 2012                                                                                   Page 51 
                                                       
                               MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                  
                                                  
     Table 25: Examples of Performance Measures (Source: FHWA Congestion Management Guide) 




                                                                                                    




February 20, 2012                                                                          Page 52 
                                                 
                                    MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                     CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                       




                                                                                                              
VolumetoCapacity Based Measures 
Measures relying on volumetocapacity ratios traditionally have been used because: (a) data on traffic 
volumes are usually relatively easy to obtain and often already exist, (b) travel demand models are 
designed to estimate future volumes on the transportation network, and (c) estimates of capacity can be 
derived using documents such as the Highway Capacity Manual (HCM). The advantage of these measures is 
that data are generally available from travel models, and there is a large existing body of experience in 
defining and applying these measures. On the other hand, they are limited in that they traditionally focused 
on the movement of vehicles, rather than people or goods. Another limitation of volumetocapacity 
measures is that they may not be readily understood by the public without a citizen education effort. 

Travel Time Measures 
 Travel time measures focus on the time needed to travel along a selected portion of the transportation 
system. Common variations of travel time metrics include: 
     Travel time ­ the amount of time needed to traverse a segment or corridor; 
     Travel speed ­ usually measured in one of two ways 
           o Average travel speed: the length of a segment divided by the travel time, or 
           o Spot speed: the speed of a vehicle or a sample of vehicles over a given time interval passing 
              point along a roadway; 
     Delay ­ the difference between travel time and acceptable or freeflow travel time; and 
     Travel time index ­ ratio of peakperiod to nonpeakperiod travel time. 
These measures can be translated, using various assumptions, into other measures such as user costs, and 
can be used in the process of validating travel demand forecasting models. 

Variability of Congestion/Reliability 

The variability or change in congestion on a daytoday basis provides a measure of reliability. Recurring 
congestion is generally predicable, but nonrecurring congestion causes unreliable travel times and is 
caused by transient events such as traffic incidents, weather conditions, work zones, or special events.  
FHWA estimates that nonrecurring sources of congestion are responsible for over half of all delay 
experienced by travelers. Some MPOs have used crash data as a surrogate measure for nonrecurring 
congestion under the premise that traffic incidents are directly linked to nonrecurring congestion. 
February 20, 2012                                                                                    Page 53 
                                                       
                                    MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                     CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                        
Measures Addressing Multimodal (Transit, Bicycle, Pedestrian Infrastructure) Availability 
In many areas, MPOs are incorporating measures beyond those focused on the automobile to include 
multimodal options, such as buses, trains, pedestrians, bicycles, and ferries. The nonautomobile 
transportation modes support the CMP by providing the potential to reduce highway congestion. Measures 
include the extent of the bicycle, pedestrian, or transit network, and quality of the network or comfort to 
users.  

Data Needs 
An integral part of the CMP is a plan that describes what data is needed to support the performance 
measures, where data will be collected, how often it will be collected, and by whom.  Additionally the plan 
should include agreedupon accuracy levels and data formats so that systemwide or regional statistics can 
be developed based on the data collected.   Gathering data to monitor system performance is typically the 
element of the CMP that requires the largest amount of resources and staff time for the MPO and its 
partners.  
 
There are many types of data that can be used as part of the CMP process. Data types are often 
differentiated or categorized according to the source or underlying nature of the data. The following list is 
not exhaustive, but includes several common types of data that are used in the CMP by MPOs. 

Traffic Volume Counts (automated or manual) 
Traffic volume, most commonly expressed as Annual Average Daily Traffic (AADT) or vehicles per hour, is a 
widelyavailable dataset. Sometimes, vehicle classification and timeofday counts may be available ­ these 
can be especially useful in areas with heavy freight traffic or intermodal/port facilities. Manual turning 
movement counts may also be used to analyze traffic at intersections. Raw traffic volumes may also be 
converted into vehicle miles of travel, particularly for use in regional or systemlevel analyses. 

Speed and travel time data 
Travel time and speed data are collected by many MPOs and/or state DOTs as part of the CMP process to 
observe congested conditions. These are generally conducted using GPS technology in a probe vehicle to 
measure linkspeeds. This information is typically used for corridorlevel analyses of recurring congestion. 
As an alternative to directly collecting this type of data, some MPOs are exploring the purchase and use of 
commerciallyavailable probe vehicle speed and delay data. 

Archived ITS and Operations data 
Various operationsrelated data can be gathered and obtained from Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) 
database, such as spotspeeds, volumes, percent laneoccupancy and raw video images of roadways Probe
based data from monitoring the flow of electronic tolltags are also used in some areas. In addition, data on 
incident response and the impact of such nonrecurring congestion may be available from traffic 
management centers, and may be used as a measure of travel time reliability. On some HOV and HOT 
networks, data may be available on lane usage and the peakperiod congestion characteristics of the 

February 20, 2012                                                                                     Page 54 
                                                        
                                    MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                     CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                         
facility, especially on HOT lanes that use variable congestion pricing. The data may be gathered from ITS 
traffic flow detectors, cameras and/or loop detectors for the purpose of managing traffic in realtime often 
from a transportation management center. Electronic toll collection systems may also be utilized for data 
on speeds and volumes. 

Other electronic traffic datasets 
In addition to common operations data sources handled by transportation agencies, data may be available 
from the private sector. For instance, cell phone data collected by phone companies along highway 
corridors can be used to report travel speeds. Cellular service providers and joint ventures with other 
private companies have begun to offer this service to some transportation agencies across the country. 

Bicycle/pedestrian data 
Many MPOs collect data on the location and condition of bicycle/pedestrian facilities, such as sidewalks, 
bicycle lanes, and offroad paths. Some MPOs also collect count information on the use of bicycle and 
pedestrian facilities, either manually or through the use of new automated technologies. 
Crash data 
Many MPOs use crash data, typically provided by the state police or state DOTs or collected by local 
agencies, as a method of determining locations where nonrecurring congestion due to incidents is more 
likely to occur. Displays and tabular and chart summaries of such data can be a useful supplement to the 
congestionbased displays. 
Travel survey data 
Data on national travel behavior factors--such as trip purpose, mode of transportation, trip length, and 
time of day of travel--is available from the National Household Travel Survey (NHTS). Similar data may also 
be available from regional or local travel surveys, as well as the American Community Survey (ACS). Many 
transit agencies also conduct rider surveys to understand customer satisfaction. This type of information is 
useful for understanding travel characteristics, trends over time, and measures of perceived service quality. 

Considerations in Selecting Performance Measures 
There are several issues that need to be considered in selecting performance measures. 

Use of Multiple Performance Measures: Some MPOs have found it beneficial to include multiple 
performance measures within the CMP to capture various aspects of congestion, including both recurring 
and nonrecurring congestion. Use of multiple performance measures also may be needed to capture 
congestion issues relevant to the multimodal transportation system, including transit, bicycling, and 
walking, and to address different congestion objectives that may be developed for the region. Results of 
several measures could be combined into a single index for purposes of identifying the most congested 
roadways, or multiple measures may be used to address different aspects of congestion that may warrant 
different solutions.  
 


February 20, 2012                                                                                    Page 55 
                                                       
                                    MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                     CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                         
For instance, the MidRegion Council of Governments in Albuquerque, New Mexico, utilizes three measures 
of congestion: volume to capacity ratio, speed, and crash rate. Together, these three measures are indexed 
and combined into a corridor score, which is used to rank roadways in terms of congestion priority. The 
result is that the agency is able to map its CMP network and portray the performance of each network link 
according to the score in order to prioritize investments. The Boston Region MPO includes a range of 
performance measures in its CMP, including roadway travel time measures (average observed travel 
speeds, travel speed index, delay), transit ontime performance, transit passenger crowding, parkandride 
lot utilization, time that parkandride lots fill up, HOV lane performance measures, utilization of TDM 
program services (ride matching, vanpools, and suburban transit shuttles), and bicycle parking availability 
and utilization at transit stations, among others. 

Use Screening Measures, with Additional Measures for Identified Congested Locations: Some agencies 
have found it helpful to use one measure, such as volumetocapacity ratio, as a screening measure to 
identify congested corridors, and then apply a more indepth performance measures only to those 
congested corridors. This approach allows agencies to focus scarce resources directly on the areas that 
benefit most from more indepth analysis, while also providing coverage for the entire system. 
 
Define Different Levels of Performance that are Acceptable in Different Circumstances: Different 
thresholds can be used to define congestion, based on location, facility type, and/or time frame. This option 
recognizes that the public may find different levels of congestion acceptable based on these parameters. 
Clearly an arterial might be expected to experience slower travel speeds than a limitedaccess freeway. On 
a high occupancy vehicle (HOV) facility, a travel speed less than 50 or 60 miles per hour or LOS C or higher 
might be considered unacceptable congestion, while these conditions may be more acceptable in the 
adjacent general purpose freeway lanes.  
 
Facility location may also influence expectations; a central business district might be expected to 
experience slower travel speeds than an outlying suburban area. Differentiating between location types 
also recognizes that eradicating congestion may not be the sole community goal in all areas; higher levels of 
traffic congestion may be acceptable, for instance, in downtown areas with high levels of transit service and 
highquality pedestrian environments. Lastly, although transportation planning processes often focus on 
weekday commute periods when examining congestion, there may be other periods of interest, such as 
weekend periods or specific seasons that are associated with heavy shopping or recreational travel. There 
may be different thresholds for performance during different periods in order to adequately capture the 
traffic congestion problems that are of concern to the public. 
 
Consider Use in Communicating Information: An additional role of the performance measures selected for 
the CMP is to communicate to decisionmakers, the public, and MPO member agencies about system 
performance, the progress being made, and the impact of proposed mitigation strategies. When developing 
performance measures for the CMP, it is important to keep in mind the role of performance measures in 
communications. It is useful to focus on aspects of system performance that matter most to the public so 
that MPOs and their member agencies can communicate effectively with the public, demonstrate 
accountability and transparency, and get the public`s support for transportation programs.  
 
Availability of Data and Data Collection Costs: 
Data availability and cost of collecting necessary data is another important consideration in the selection of 
performance measures. The development of a data plan serves as a reality check for the objectives and 
performance measures selected for the CMP.

February 20, 2012                                                                                     Page 56 
                                                        
                                    MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                     CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                         
Performance Measures for SR 714  
Based on the considerations discussed above and the availability of data for the study segment of SR 714, it 
is suggested that the following performance measures be considered for SR 714: 

        Roadway level of service,  
        Peakhour intersection level of service,  
        Peakhour travel speed as a percentage of posted speed,  
        Peakhour travel time as a percentage of offpeak time travel time,  
        Crash Rate ( crashes per million vehicle miles), and 
        Congestion duration (hours of travel per day). 
These measures were selected for several reasons, including the fact that they are userfriendly and 
relatively easy for the average citizen to understand and the data needed for these measures can easily be 
obtained from the existing sources and/or collected at a relatively low cost. These measures also create a 
consistent scale of measurement that allows for comparisons from year to year, and are based on 
technicallydefensible measures commonly used around the country. 
 
The following data are needed to evaluate the effectiveness of congestion mitigation measures: 
 
Traffic Counts 
Twentyfourhour counts can be obtained from the existing Traffic Monitoring Station located just east 
Citrus Boulevard on SR 714 and the FDOT Count Station located west of the Turnpike. Turning movement 
counts at the signalized intersections can be obtained from the existing video cameras located at each of 
the 3 signalized intersections within the study segment. Traffic counts at unsignalized intersections and at 
major driveways can be used from traffic impact studies, if available. If the data is not available, it can be 
collected at a relatively low cost.  
 
Travel Time Data 
Travel time and speed data can collected using a variety of low cost devices (ATRs, TMC boards, GPS 
devices, radar guns, etc.) and associated software or can be estimated using traffic analysis software, such 
as HCS, Synchro, CORSIM, etc. 
 
Crash Data 
Crash data can be collected from crash databases that are maintained by the Martin County Engineering 
Department or the FDOT Central Office. 

Evaluate Effectiveness of Implemented Congestion Mitigation Strategies 
This is an essential and required element of the CMP that is often overlooked. 23 CFR 450.320 (c) 6 requires 
that the CMP include "Implementation of a process for periodic assessment of the effectiveness of 
implemented strategies, in terms of the area's established performance measures. The results of this 
evaluation shall be provided to decision makers and the public to provide guidance on selection of effective 
strategies for future implementation." 
 

February 20, 2012                                                                                      Page 57 
                                                         
                                    MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                     CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                        
The primary goal of effectiveness evaluation is to ensure that implemented strategies are effective at 
addressing congestion as intended, and to make changes based on the findings as necessary.  Findings that 
show improvement in congested conditions due to specific implemented strategies can be used to 
encourage further implementation of these strategies, while negative findings may be useful for 
discouraging or downplaying the effectiveness of similar strategies in similar situations.  

One approach to evaluation is for the MPO to fund studies to measure the effectiveness of particular 
congestion strategies or projects by examining conditions before and after, or with and without, a strategy 
of interest. For instance, a study could be conducted to quantify vehiclemilestraveled (VMT) reductions or 
of mode shifts of a transportation demand management (TDM) program, to quantify the speed 
improvements associated with traffic flow improvement projects, to examine the reduction in vehicle delay 
associated with operational strategies, or other similar types of impacts.  

 

                                 




February 20, 2012                                                                                  Page 58 
                                                      
                                   MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                    CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                       
Summary of Study Findings  
Based on the field reviews and other analysis conducted as part of this study, the following are some key 
findings.  

    1. Based on a generalized LOS analysis conducted using ARTPLAN, the study corridor operates at LOS 
       D. However, based on a detailed analysis conducted using Synchro, the following intersections and 
       traffic movements are not currently operating at acceptable level of service (LOS D).  
            a. The overall LOS for the Turnpike intersection (AM peak hour).  
            b. Turnpike ­ eastbound leftturn (AM peak hour), southbound rightturn (PM peak hour) 
            c. Citrus Boulevard  ­ eastbound through and southbound leftturn (AM peak hour) 
            d. SW 42nd Avenue ­ southbound leftturn (PM peak hour) 
    2. The eastbound leftturn and southbound rightturn volumes are over 450 vehicles per hour during 
       peak hours at the intersection of SR 714/Turnpike. These volumes in general require two turn lanes 
       for efficient operation. However, there is only one turn lane for each of these two movements. 
    3. The southbound leftturn at Citrus Boulevard (AM peak) and westbound leftturn at Turnpike 
       intersection (PM peak) are over 300 vehicles per hour. These volumes in general require two turn 
       lanes for efficient operation. However, there is only one turn lane for each of these two 
       movements. 
    4. The results of travel time and delay studies indicate that during the offpeak times the average 
       travel times were 154 seconds and 178 seconds in the eastbound and westbound directions, 
       respectively. The travel times during peak periods are estimated to be in excess of 220 seconds. 
       Table 26 below compares the offpeak and peak travel times and summarizes associated cost due 
       to congestion along the corridor.  
    5. In the year 2021, without any improvements, the following intersections are expected to operate at 
       unacceptable level of service (LOS F): 
            a. Citrus Boulevard (AM Peak),  
            b. SW 42nd Avenue (PM Peak), and  
            c. Armellini Avenue (PM Peak).  
    6. By the year 2031, without any improvements, all the intersections are expected to operate at 
       unacceptable level of service (LOS E or F) with the exception of  SR 714/Citrus Blvd intersection, 
       which is expected to operate at LOS D only during the PM peak hour.  
    7. A total of 158 crashes occurred. Eightyeight percent (88%) of the crashes occurred at signalized 
       intersections, 56% occurred at the intersection of SR 714 and Florida's Turnpike.  
    8. The existing coordinated system along the study segment only includes two signalized 
       intersections, SR 714/Citrus Boulevard and SR 714/SW 42nd Avenue, and does not include the SR 
       714/Turnpike intersection. A fully coordinated signal system (including the SR 714/Turnpike 
       intersection) and optimized signal timing appears to adequately address congestion along this 
       corridor until the year 2021. However, additional roadway improvements are needed to be able to 
       operate the subject corridor at an acceptable LOS beyond 2021.  




February 20, 2012                                                                                   Page 59 
                                                       
                                          MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                           CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                       
                                 Table 26: Summary of Cost Due to Congestion 

               Off                         Congestion 
                       Peak Period                                         VehicleHours      Annual 
              Peak                          Delay per        Peak Hour                                    Annual 
 Travel                Travel Time                                         Delay in Peak  VehicleHours 
             Travel                       Vehicle (sec.)      Volume                                    Congestion  
Direction                 (sec.)                                             Hour (2)       Delay (3) 
              Time                             (1)                                                       Cost (4) 
             (sec.) 
                       AM      PM         AM       PM       AM      PM     AM      PM      AM         PM 
East          154      237    220          83       66      1007    633    23.2    11.6    6040  3020 
                                                                                                                $250,000 
West          178      239    231          61       53      669     940    11.3    13.8    2950  3600 
   Notes:  1) Peak period travel time minus offpeak period travel time                                           
           2) Delay in seconds per vehicle x vehicles per hour / 3600                                            
           3) Peak hour vehiclehours delay x 5 Days per week x 52 weeks per year                                 
           4) Annual vehiclehours delay x $16 per hour                                                           
                                                                

                                       




February 20, 2012                                                                                                   Page 60 
                                                                
                                   MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                    CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                      
Proposed Improvements  
Based on the analysis conducted as part of this study, the following improvements are recommended to 
help reduce congestion and improve traffic flow along the study segment of SR 714.  The suggested 
improvements are listed by intersection and some general improvements are listed at the end. The 
following improvements were evaluated from an operational standpoint. However, further evaluation 
should be conducted to determine the feasibility from a design/construction standpoint. This evaluation 
should be based on rightofway availability, utility conflicts, FDOT standards, MUTCD criteria and other 
relevant requirements. 

SR 714 at Citrus Boulevard  
    1. Change the cycle length to 160 seconds during the AM and PM peak periods and optimize splits and 
       offsets. 
    2. Considering the high southbound leftturn volume, it is recommended that the existing southbound 
       through lane be converted to a shared leftturn/ through lane and the east leg be widened to 
       receive traffic from dual southbound leftturn lanes.  
    3. It is recommended that the west leg be widened to provide two through lanes to add additional 
       capacity for eastbound traffic. 
    4. While the westbound rightturn movement operates well under current conditions with minimal 
       queuing, sometimes westbound rightturn vehicles were observed to get stuck within the through 
       traffic queues. Some leftturn vehicles were observed to use the striped median area to bypass the 
       through traffic queues and access the leftturn lane. Therefore, it is suggested that the rightturn 
       and leftturn lanes be extended to address the conditions described above and also to 
       accommodate future traffic growth in the area. 
    5. Install guide stripes for all leftturn movements to properly guide leftturning vehicles. 
    6. Evaluate the drainage conditions on the southwest corner and implement appropriate 
       improvements, as needed. 
    7. It is suggested that the stop bar locations on the west and north legs be reviewed and adjusted as 
       needed, to reduce clearance distance and properly guide leftturn vehicles.  

SR 714 at SW 42nd Avenue  
    8. Change the cycle length to 160 seconds during the AM and PM peak periods and optimize splits and 
        offsets to help improve traffic flow. 
    9. Replace the existing video detection equipment at this intersection with updated equipment to 
        help improve vehicle detection capabilities and also provide intersection monitoring capabilities. 
        The updated equipment should be consistent with other intersections in Martin County. 
    10. It is suggested that the stop bars be moved closer to the intersection, if possible, to reduce 
        clearance distance and thus help reduce delay.  
    11. It is recommended that the east and west legs be widened to include two through lanes in each 
        direction to add more capacity for east/west through traffic. 
    12. Improve the westbound rightturn radius to accommodate truck traffic. This improvement will also 
        reduce the potential for crashes between westbound rightturn and southbound leftturn traffic. 

February 20, 2012                                                                                 Page 61 
                                                      
                                   MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                    CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                       
   13. Install guide stripes for all leftturn movements to properly guide leftturning vehicles. 

SR 714 at Florida's Turnpike  
   14. Coordinate this signal with adjacent signalized intersections, High Meadow Avenue to the east and 
       SW 42nd Avenue to the west, and implement a coordinated signal system to improve traffic flow. 
       Our conversation with the Martin County Traffic Engineering Staff indicates that the County is in 
       the process of implementing a coordinated signal system from High Meadow Avenue to Citrus 
       Boulevard. The new coordinated system includes this intersection. 
   15. Considering the documented leftturn crash history with 14 leftturn crashes (7 in the westbound 
       direction, including one fatality, and 7 in the eastbound direction), it is recommended that the 
       existing "protected/permissive" leftturn phase in the eastbound and westbound directions be 
       modified to a "protected only" phase.  
   16. Considering the high volume of southbound rightturn traffic (over 600 vph during peak hour), it is 
       recommended that a rightturn overlap phase be implemented.  
   17. Install dual leftturn lanes in the eastbound and westbound directions by widening Martin Highway 
       (SR 714 and CR 714 portions) on the north side. In order to provide adequate storage for the peak 
       hour leftturn demand in the eastbound direction, the median opening at Armellini Avenue will 
       need to be modified as discussed below in the SR 714 at Armellini Avenue section. 
   18. Evaluate the need to extend the guardrail located on the south side of eastbound SR 714 
       (approaching the intersection) and extend the guardrail, if needed. 
   19. As part of a FDOT roadway widening project scheduled for FY 2015, an additional through lane will 
       be installed in the eastbound and westbound directions at this intersection.  A preliminary review 
       indicates that additional through lanes (to be added as part of this FDOT project) can be extended 
       further west past the Turnpike bridge, but may require some widening on the west side of the 
       bridge and a design exception which would involve 11ft lanes and no shoulder on the south side. 
       Further evaluation and coordination with FDOT is needed to confirm the feasibility of providing 
       four lanes across the Turnpike Bridge. 
   20. In order to accommodate heavy southbound volumes (over 600 vehicles per hour), it is suggested 
       that the outside southbound through lane be converted to a right/through shared lane. Evaluate 
       the need for this improvement again after the Indian Street Bridge project is complete to make sure 
       the southbound rightturn volume is remains heavy. 
   21. Install a `Queue Detection and Motorist Warning System' facing eastbound traffic approaching the 
       Bridge over the Turnpike to reduce the potential for rear end and sideswipe crashes. The proposed 
       system should detect stopped vehicles and activate flashers on "Prepare to Stop When Flashing" 
       signs under the following conditions: 
           a. The eastbound signal indication at the Turnpike is red and/or  
           b. The eastbound queues extend to a point where motorists approaching the intersection do 
                 not have sufficient time and distance to take necessary actions to avoid rear ending queued 
                 vehicles. 
   22. To reduce the potential for rear end crashes involving southbound rightturn vehicles, it is 
       suggested that the existing "Stop Here on Red" and "Yield" signs be removed.  

February 20, 2012                                                                                   Page 62 
                                                       
                                     MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                      CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                          
   23.   Install a "Signal Ahead" sign (facing the eastbound traffic) on the west side of the Turnpike Bridge 
         to provide advance warning to eastbound motorists of the signalized intersection at SR 
         714/Turnpike Entrance. 
   24.   Install guide stripes for all leftturn movements.  
   25.   Refurbish pavement markings on the west leg. 
   26.   Trim the shrubbery located on the northeast corner to help improve southbound rightturn 
         motorists' view of westbound traffic.  
   27.   Replace the broken sidewalk on the northwest corner (see Photo 6) and implement necessary 
         improvements to provide proper drainage and thus reduce the potential for standing water along 
         the southbound and westbound travel lanes/shoulder (northwest corner). 
   28.   Consider the installation of pedestrian features at the intersection. 

SR 714 at Armellini Avenue  
   29. Considering the sight restriction for the southbound traffic at Armellini Avenue due to the bridge 
       over the Turnpike (See Photo 20), and the storage needs for the eastbound leftturn traffic at the 
       SR 714/Turnpike intersection, a total of two alternatives were proposed at Armellini Avenue.  

             c. Alternative 1 ­ Close the median opening and restrict the traffic movements to rightin and 
                 rightout. However, considering that the access needs of eastbound motorists wishing to 
                 access businesses along Armellini Avenue to the north, an additional alternative (which is 
                 less restrictive) was developed as described below. 
             d. Alternative 2 ­ Modify the median opening to allow eastbound leftturn onto Armellini 
                 Avenue and restrict the southbound movement from Armellini Avenue to rightturn only.  
         Possible alternative routes for the impacted movements are shown on an aerial map included in 
         Appendix H. 
   30. Modify the southbound rightturn radius (to accommodate a WB40 design vehicle) and reconstruct 
       the curb and replace the existing guardrail end anchor and install additional guardrail to meet 
       current standards. 
   31. Upgrade pedestrian features, such as the pipe guiderail and sidewalk ramps to meet current 
       standards.   

SR 714 at Deggeller Court/Leighton Farms Road 
   32. Consider striping the median area on SR 714 between Deggeller Court and Leighton Farms Road to 
       better delineate the turning path for northbound and southbound leftturn movements, and thus 
       reduce the potential for headon collisions. 
   33. Install a crosswalk on the north leg. 
   34. Remove sand buildup and other debris from pedestrian ramp areas in the northwest and northeast 
       corners. 
   35. Evaluate the drainage conditions on the northwest and northeast corners and implement 
       appropriate improvements. 



February 20, 2012                                                                                      Page 63 
                                                         
                                    MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                     CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                          
    36. It is recommended that Leighton Farm Road be shifted further west (through the permitting 
        process for future developments or roadway projects), so that it is aligned with Deggeller Court to 
        form a proper fourlegged intersection. This will provide for safer and more efficient operations at 
        this intersection. As an alternative, consider restricting the northbound movements to "Rightturn 
        Only". 

Corridor Improvements  
    37. Implement a coordinated signal system along SR 714 and connect the signal at the Turnpike 
        intersection with other signalized intersections along the corridor. 
    38. The guide signing along the corridor should be analyzed and enhanced as needed. For example, on 
        the north leg of Citrus Boulevard there is a sign, facing the southbound traffic,  that indicates "I95" 
        is to the right (west). However, there is another sign just south of the intersection, which indicates 
        "I95 south" is straight (south). For a user that is not familiar with the area, this could cause some 
        confusion. The situation in this example could be remedied simply by changing the sign on the 
        north leg to indicate I95 north is to the right (west) and I95 south is straight (south).  
    39. Considering that the subject corridor provides access to both I95 and Florida's Turnpike, it is 
        suggested that arterial dynamic message signs be installed to inform motorists of congestion 
        and/or lane closures on I95 or Florida's Turnpike and thus allow motorists to alter their route as 
        necessary. Some potential locations for these signs are:  
              o North of SR 714 on Citrus Boulevard, facing southbound motorists  
              o North of SR 714 on Martin Downs Boulevard, facing southbound motorists  
              o East of High Meadow Avenue on CR 714, facing westbound motorists  
              o Between Leighton Farms Road and the Bridge over the Turnpike, facing eastbound 
                 motorists.  
    40. Install bicycle facilities as part of future development/roadway projects to help reduce vehicular 
        trips along the corridor.   
    41. It is suggested that turn lanes be provided (as part of any future development) at driveways to 
        major traffic generators along the corridor to accommodate the access needs of turning traffic and 
        to minimize the negative impact of turning traffic on corridor traffic flow. 

Benefit/Cost Analysis  
The benefits associated with expected reduction in delay due to proposed improvements were calculated 
by multiplying the total vehiclehours of delay reduced by $16/hour (estimated cost/hour of lost time as 
per TTI's 2011 Urban Mobility Report). The average annual benefit resulting from estimated reduction in 
delay due to proposed improvements was estimated to be $120,000 and $570,000 for signal related and 
roadway improvements, respectively. The estimated cost of the signal related improvements is 
approximately $123,000, which is equivalent to an annualized cost of $12,500. The resulting Benefit/Cost 
(B/C) ratio for signal related improvements is 9.6. The estimated cost of the roadway improvements is 
approximately $1,000,000, which is equivalent to an annualized cost of $89,900. The resulting Benefit/Cost 
(B/C) ratio for roadway improvements is 6.3. 

 
February 20, 2012                                                                                      Page 64 
                                                         
                                 MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                  CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                   
Conclusions 
This annual update of the Martin County Congestion Management Plan identified several operational 
improvements to reduce congestion and improve traffic flow along the SR 714 corridor from Citrus 
Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike. Some of the recommended improvements, especially those related to 
signal timing improvements, can be implemented using Martin County Traffic Engineering Department's 
resources within a relatively short time, thereby providing an immediate benefit to motorists. The 
remaining roadway improvements need to be considered for future CMS funding during the development 
and adoption of the Martin County Transportation Improvement Program (TIP) and the FDOT 5Year Work 
Program. (See Table 27: Implementation Plan)




February 20, 2012                                                                            Page 65 
                                                   
                                                                                                                              MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                                                                                                               CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                                                                    
                                                                          Table 27: Implementation Plan 
                                                                                 Responsible           Suggested Time         Congestion                           Approximate 
#        Location                         Improvement                                                                                     Implementation/Funding  
                                                                                   Agency                  Frame               Related                                Cost 
      SR 714 at Citrus    Change cycle length to 160 seconds and optimize                              As Soon As Possible 
1                                                                                Martin County                                      Yes        Martin County Traffic Engineering      $1,000 
      Blvd.               splits and offsets                                                                 (ASAP) 
                          Convert the existing southbound through lane to 
      SR 714 at Citrus    a shared leftturn/ through lane and widen the          FDOT/Martin 
2                                                                                                       Within 10 Years             Yes              FDOT/Martin County 
      Blvd.               east leg to accommodate dual southbound left             County 
                          turn lanes 
                          Widen the west leg to provide two through lanes                                                                                                            $200,000 
      SR 714 at Citrus 
3                         for eastbound traffic to add additional capacity           FDOT               Within 10 Years             Yes              FDOT/Martin County 
      Blvd. 
                          for eastbound traffic 
      SR 714 at Citrus    Extend the westbound rightturn and leftturn 
4                                                                                    FDOT               Within 10 Years             Yes              FDOT/Martin County 
      Blvd.               lanes 
      SR 714 at Citrus    Install guide stripes for all leftturn movements to 
5                                                                                    FDOT                     ASAP                  No                       FDOT                     $1,000 
      Blvd.               properly guide leftturning vehicles 
      SR 714 at Citrus    Evaluate roadway drainage in the southeast                                    As part of future 
6                                                                                    FDOT                                           No                       FDOT                    $20,000 
      Blvd.               corner and implement necessary actions                                        roadway projects 
                          It is suggested that the stop bar locations on the 
      SR 714 at Citrus                                                                                  As part of future 
7                         west and north legs be reviewed and adjusted as            FDOT                                           No                       FDOT                     $5,000 
      Blvd.                                                                                             roadway projects 
                          needed 
      SR 714 at SW        Change cycle length to 160 seconds and optimize 
8                                                                                Martin County                ASAP                  Yes        Martin County Traffic Engineering      $1,000 
      42nd  Ave.          splits and offsets 
      SR 714 at SW        Replace the existing vehicle detection equipment 
9                                                                                Martin County            5 ­ 10 Years              Yes        Martin County Traffic Engineering     $75,000 
      42nd  Ave.          at this intersection with updated equipment 
      SR 714 at SW        Move the stop bars closer to the intersection, if                             As part of future 
10                                                                                   FDOT                                           No                       FDOT                     $5,000 
      42nd  Ave.          possible                                                                      roadway projects 
      SR 714 at SW        Widen east and west legs to provide two through 
11                                                                                   FDOT                 5 ­ 10 Years              Yes                      FDOT 
      42nd  Ave.          lanes in each direction to increase capacity 
                                                                                                                                                                                     $200,000 
      SR 714 at SW        Improve the westbound rightturn radius to 
12                                                                                   FDOT                 5 ­ 10 Years              Yes                      FDOT 
      42nd  Ave.          accommodate truck traffic 
13    SR 714 at SW        Install guide stripes for all leftturn movements to        FDOT                     ASAP                  No                       FDOT                     $1,000 

February 20, 2012                                                                                                                                                                         Page 66 
                                                                                                                     MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                                                                                                      CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                                                                
                                                                             Responsible           Suggested Time    Congestion                           Approximate 
#        Location                     Improvement                                                                                Implementation/Funding  
                                                                               Agency                  Frame          Related                                Cost 
      42nd  Ave.      properly guide leftturning vehicles 
                      Coordinate this signal with adjacent signalized 
                      intersections, High Meadow Avenue to the east 
                      and SW 42nd Avenue to the west, and implement 
                      a coordinated signal system to improve traffic 
      SR 714 at FL    flow. Our conversation with the Martin County 
14                                                                           Martin County              ASAP               Yes        Martin County Traffic Engineering      $5,000 
      Turnpike        Traffic Engineering Staff indicates that the County 
                      is in the process of implementing a coordinated 
                      signal system from High Meadow Avenue to 
                      Citrus Boulevard. The new coordinated system 
                      includes this intersection 
                      Convert the existing "protected/permissive" left
      SR 714 at FL    turn phase in the eastbound and westbound                                                                           Upcoming FDOT Widening 
15                                                                               FDOT                2014 to 2016          Yes  
      Turnpike        directions to "protected only" phase to reduce                                                                             Project  
                      leftturn crashes 
      SR 714 at FL    Install a rightturn overlap phase for southbound                                                                    Upcoming FDOT Widening 
16                                                                               FDOT                2014 to 2016          Yes  
      Turnpike        rightturn traffic to reduce delay                                                                                          Project  
                      Install dual leftturn lanes in the eastbound and 
      SR 714 at FL                                                                                                                        Upcoming FDOT Widening 
17                    westbound directions to reduce delay for left              FDOT                2014 to 2016          Yes  
      Turnpike                                                                                                                                   Project  
                      turning traffic 
      SR 714 at FL    Evaluate the need to extend the guardrail located                                                                   Upcoming FDOT Widening 
18                                                                               FDOT                2014 to 2016          No                                               $550,000 
      Turnpike        on the south side of eastbound SR 714                                                                                      Project  
                      As part of an FDOT roadway widening project 
                      scheduled for FY 2015, an additional through lane 
                      will be installed in the eastbound and westbound 
      SR 714 at FL                                                                                                                        Upcoming FDOT Widening 
19                    directions at this intersection. Evaluate the              FDOT                2014 to 2016          Yes  
      Turnpike                                                                                                                                   Project  
                      possibility of extending these additional through 
                      lanes (to be added as part of this FDOT project) to 
                      west of the Turnpike Bridge 
      SR 714 at FL    It is suggested that the outside southbound                                                                         Upcoming FDOT Widening 
20                                                                               FDOT                2014 to 2016          Yes  
      Turnpike        through lane be converted to a right/through                                                                               Project  

February 20, 2012                                                                                                                                                                Page 67 
                                                                                                
                                                                                                                   MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                                                                                                    CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                                                              
                                                                              Responsible        Suggested Time    Congestion                           Approximate 
#        Location                       Improvement                                                                            Implementation/Funding  
                                                                                Agency               Frame          Related                                Cost 
                       shared lane. Evaluate the need for this 
                       improvement again after the Indian Street Bridge 
                       project is complete to make sure the southbound 
                       rightturn volume remains heavy 
                       Install a `Queue Detection and Motorist Warning 
      SR 714 at FL                                                                                                                      Upcoming FDOT Widening 
21                     System' to warn eastbound motorists of potential          FDOT              2014 to 2016          Yes  
      Turnpike                                                                                                                                 Project  
                       stopped/queued traffic at the intersection 
    SR 714 at FL       It is suggested that the existing "Stop Here on 
22                                                                               FDOT                 ASAP               Yes        Upcoming FDOT Widening Project  
    Turnpike           Red" and "Yield" signs be removed 
    SR 714 at FL       Install a "Signal Ahead" sign (facing the eastbound                                                              Upcoming FDOT Widening 
23                                                                               FDOT                 ASAP               Yes  
    Turnpike           traffic) on the west side of the Turnpike Bridge.                                                                       Project  
    SR 714 at FL                                                                                                                        Upcoming FDOT Widening 
24                     Install guide stripes for all leftturn movements          FDOT                 ASAP               Yes  
    Turnpike                                                                                                                                   Project                     $5,000 
    SR 714 at FL                                                                                                                        Upcoming FDOT Widening 
25                     Refurbish pavement markings on the west leg               FDOT                 ASAP               No 
    Turnpike                                                                                                                                   Project  
                       Trim the shrubbery located on the northeast 
    SR 714 at FL                                                                                                                        Upcoming FDOT Widening 
26                     corner to help improve southbound rightturn               FDOT                 ASAP               No 
    Turnpike                                                                                                                                   Project  
                       motorists' view of westbound traffic 
                       Replace the broken sidewalk on the northwest 
      SR 714 at FL                                                                                                                      Upcoming FDOT Widening 
27                     corner and implement necessary improvements               FDOT              2014 to 2016          No 
      Turnpike                                                                                                                                 Project  
                       to provide proper drainage on the NW corner 
      SR 714 at FL                                                                                                                      Upcoming FDOT Widening 
28                     Install pedestrian features at this intersection          FDOT              2014 to 2016          No 
      Turnpike                                                                                                                                 Project  
                       Modify the median opening to allow eastbound 
    SR 714 at          leftturn onto Armellini Avenue and restrict the                                                                  Upcoming FDOT Widening            $100,000 
29                                                                               FDOT              2014 to 2016          Yes 
    Armellini Ave      southbound movement from Armellini Avenue to                                                                            Project  
                       "Rightturn Only."  
                       Modify the southbound rightturn radius (to 
      SR 714 at        accommodate a WB40 design vehicle) and                                                                           Upcoming FDOT Widening 
30                                                                               FDOT              2014 to 2016          Yes 
      Armellini Ave    reconstruct the curb and replace the existing                                                                           Project  
                       guardrail end anchor and install additional 

February 20, 2012                                                                                                                                                              Page 68 
                                                                                              
                                                                                                                         MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                                                                                                          CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                                                                
                                                                             Responsible           Suggested Time        Congestion                           Approximate 
#        Location                      Improvement                                                                                   Implementation/Funding  
                                                                               Agency                  Frame              Related                                Cost 
                       guardrail to meet current standards 
                       Upgrade pedestrian features, such as the pipe 
      SR 714 at                                                                                                                               Upcoming FDOT Widening 
31                     guiderail, crosswalk and sidewalk ramps to meet           FDOT                 2014 to 2016             No 
      Armellini Ave                                                                                                                                  Project  
                       current standards 
                       Consider striping the median area on SR 714 
    SR 714 at 
                       between Deggeller Court and Leighton Farms 
    Deggeller 
                       Road to better delineate the turning path for 
32  Court/Leighton                                                               FDOT                     ASAP                 No                      FDOT                      $1,000 
                       northbound and southbound leftturn 
    Farms Road 
                       movements, and thus reduce the potential for 
     
                       headon collisions 
    SR 714 at 
    Deggeller                                                                                       As part of future 
33                     Install a crosswalk on the north leg                      FDOT                                          No                      FDOT                       $500 
    Court/Leighton                                                                                  roadway projects 
    Farms Road 
    SR 714 at 
                       Clear sand buildup and other debris from 
    Deggeller                                                                FDOT / Martin                                                     FDOT / Martin County 
34                     pedestrian ramp areas in the northwest and                                         ASAP                 No                                                 N/A 
    Court/Leighton                                                              County                                                        Maintenance Department  
                       northeast corners 
    Farms Road 
    SR 714 at 
                       Evaluate roadway drainage in the northwest and 
    Deggeller                                                                                       As part of future 
35                     northeast corners and implement necessary                 FDOT                                          No                      FDOT                     $20,000 
    Court/Leighton                                                                                  roadway projects 
                       actions 
    Farms Road 
                       It is recommended that Leighton Farm Road be 
                       shifted further west (possibly through the 
                       permitting process for future developments or 
    SR 714 at 
                       roadway projects), so that it is aligned with 
    Deggeller                                                                                       As part of future 
36                     Deggeller Court to form a proper fourlegged           Martin County                                     Yes                  Developers                    N/A 
    Court/Leighton                                                                                   development  
                       intersection. This will provide for safer and more 
    Farms Road 
                       efficient operations at this intersection. As an 
                       alternative, consider restricting the northbound 
                       movements to "Rightturn Only" 

February 20, 2012                                                                                                                                                                    Page 69 
                                                                                                
                                                                                                                         MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                                                                                                          CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                                                                
                                                                             Responsible           Suggested Time        Congestion                           Approximate 
#      Location                      Improvement                                                                                     Implementation/Funding  
                                                                               Agency                  Frame              Related                                Cost 
                     Implement a coordinated signal system along SR 
                     714 and connect the signal at the Turnpike 
37  Corridorwide                                                             Martin County               ASAP                  Yes        Martin County Traffic Engineering      $5,000 
                     intersection with other signalized intersections 
                     along the corridor 
                     The guide signing along the corridor should be          FDOT / Martin 
38  Corridorwide                                                                                         ASAP                  Yes              FDOT/Martin County               $5,000 
                     analyzed and enhanced as needed                            County  
                     Considering that the subject corridor provides 
                     access to two major roadways, I95 and Florida's 
                     Turnpike, it is suggested that arterial dynamic 
                                                                             FDOT / Martin 
39  Corridorwide     message signs be installed on the main roads                                    10 ­ 15 Years             Yes              FDOT/Martin County              $200,000 
                                                                                County  
                     entering the corridor to inform motorists of 
                     congestion along the corridor, I95 and Florida's 
                     Turnpike 
                     Install bicycle facilities as part of future                                 As part of future 
40  Corridorwide     development/roadway projects to help reduce                 FDOT                 roadway                  Yes                FDOT/Developers               $250,000 
                     vehicular trips along the corridor                                        projects/developments 
                     It is suggested that turn lanes be provided (as part 
                     of any future development) at driveways to major 
                     traffic generators along the corridor to                                       As part of future 
41  Corridorwide                                                             Martin County                                     Yes               Future Developers                N/A 
                     accommodate the access needs of turning traffic                                 development  
                     and to minimize the negative impact of turning 
                     traffic on corridor traffic flow 




February 20, 2012                                                                                                                                                                    Page 70 
                                                                                                
                                    MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                     CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                           
                                              Site Photos 




                                                                                                        
                      Photo 1: Martin County Traffic Count Station located east of Citrus Blvd 




                                                                                                            
                Photo 2: Southbound leftturn queues, during AM peak, at Citrus Blvd (looking north) 




February 20, 2012                                                                                              Page 71 
                                    MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                     CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                            




                                                                                                          
              Photo 3: Eastbound through queues at Citrus Blvd during the AM peak hour (looking west) 




                                                                                                          
                  Photo 4: Possible drainage issue on the southeast corner of SR 714 and Citrus Blvd 




February 20, 2012                                                                                            Page 72 
                                                            
                                    MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                     CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                           




                                                                                      
                Photo 5: Tire marks on the sidewalk on the northeast corner of SR 714 and Citrus Blvd 




                                                                                                          
                 Photo 6: Citrus Grove Elementary School located north of SR 714 along Citrus Blvd 




February 20, 2012                                                                                            Page 73 
                                                           
                                      MARTIN COUN
                                      M           NTY CONGESTION MANAG    GEMENT PRO   OCESS UPDAT  TE 2011                           
                                        CMP for SR 714 from Cit
                                                              trus Boulevar
                                                                          rd to Florida's           ntrance 
                                                                                        s Turnpike En
                                                             




                                                                                                          
                             Photo 7: Cit
                                        trus Grove Elem
                                                      mentary School Busses
                                                                     B       (looking south) 




                                                                                                          
          : AM Peak Hour eastbound thro
   Photo 8:                                         om SW 42nd Ave
                                      ough queues fro              enue extending to Citrus Blvd (L
                                                                                                  Looking east fro
                                                                                                                 om 
                                                    C
                                                    Citrus  Blvd) 



February 2
         20, 2012                                                                                               P
                                                                                                                Page 74 
                                                             
                                    MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                     CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                           




                                                                                                         
                Photo 9: Tire marks on the curb on the northeast corner of SR 714 and SW 42nd Avenue 




                                                                                                         
      Photo 10: Westbound queues during PM peak hour from SW 42nd Avenue (Looking west from Deggeller Court) 




February 20, 2012                                                                                           Page 75 
                                                           
                                    MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                     CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                          




                            Queues on the 
                               Bridge 




                                                                                                     
           Photo 11: Westbound queues from SW 42nd Avenue extending over the Turnpike bridge (PM Peak) 




                                                                                                     
                       Photo 12: Trucks waiting in the southbound leftturn at SW 42d Avenue 


February 20, 2012                                                                                         Page 76 
                                                          
                                    MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                     CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                           




                                                                                                        
                       Photo 13: Sand buildup on the NE corner of SR 714 and Deggeller Court 




                                                                                                        
           Photo 14: Eastbound leftturn queues at Florida's Turnpike backedup into through lane (AM Peak) 

February 20, 2012                                                                                            Page 77 
                                                           
                                      MARTIN COUN
                                      M           NTY CONGESTION MANAG    GEMENT PRO   OCESS UPDAT  TE 2011                           
                                        CMP for SR 714 from Cit
                                                              trus Boulevar
                                                                          rd to Florida's           ntrance 
                                                                                        s Turnpike En
                                                            




                                                                                                           
         hoto 15: Eastbou
        Ph              und leftturn qu              ida's Turnpike extending up to Armellini
                                      ueues from Flori                              A          Avenu
                                                                                                   ue (PM Peak) 




                                                                                                           
                        Photo
                        P                            rn queues at Flo
                                       hbound righttur
                               16: South                            orida's Turnpike
                                                                                   e (PM Peak) 




February 2
         20, 2012                                                                                                  P
                                                                                                                   Page 78 
                                                            
                                     MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                      CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                            




                                                                                                          
        Photo 17: Southbound rightturn line of sight blocked by shrubbery (NE Corner of SR 714 & Martin Downs) 




                                                                                                         
            Photo 18: Standing water and broken sidewalk on the NW corner of SR 714 and Florida Turnpike 




February 20, 2012                                                                                                 Page 79 
                                                            
                                     MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                                      CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                            




                                                                                                         
          Photo 19: Westbound leftturn queues from Turnpike intersection, extending into the painted median 




                                                                                                         
                      Photo 20: Line of sight for southbound leftturn vehicle on Armellini Avenue 




February 20, 2012                                                                                              Page 80 
                                                            
                              MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                               CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                                    




                                                                                       
                     Photo 21: Sign facing southbound vehicles at Armellini Avenue 

                           




February 20, 2012                                                                         Page 81 
                                                    
                     MARTIN COUNTY CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PROCESS UPDATE 2011                           
                      CMP for SR 714 from Citrus Boulevard to Florida's Turnpike Entrance 
                                       
                             Appendices 
 
 




February 20, 2012                                                                Page 82 
                                       
Page 83
Page 84
Page 85
Page 86
Page 87
Page 88
                
    Appendix B  
        Traffic Counts 
                

     




                          Page 89
                                                  Turning Movement Counts 
                                                  SR 714 at Citrus Boulevard

                                                                                      Hourly     Daily 
Detector Title   Date                                   Time           Volume         Total      Total
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:00:00 AM           79
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:15:00 AM           76
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:30:00 AM          108
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:45:00 AM          122        385
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:00:00 AM          143
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:15:00 AM           85
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:30:00 AM          112
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:45:00 AM           94        434
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:00:00 AM           64
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:15:00 AM           63
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:30:00 AM           78
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:45:00 AM           61        266
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:00:00 PM           76
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:15:00 PM           68
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:30:00 PM           55
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:45:00 PM           61        260
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:00:00 PM           72
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:15:00 PM           77
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:30:00 PM           95
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:45:00 PM           71        315
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:00:00 PM           84
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:15:00 PM           89
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:30:00 PM           65
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:45:00 PM           77        315     1975
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:00:00 AM           68
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:15:00 AM           82
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:30:00 AM           86
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:45:00 AM          115        351
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:00:00 AM          120
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:15:00 AM           98
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:30:00 AM          107
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:45:00 AM          100        425
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:00:00 AM           54
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:15:00 AM           69
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:30:00 AM           52
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:45:00 AM           68        243
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:00:00 PM           64
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:15:00 PM           78
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:30:00 PM           55
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:45:00 PM           57        254
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:00:00 PM           83
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:15:00 PM           91
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:30:00 PM           94
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:45:00 PM           77        345
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:00:00 PM           74
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:15:00 PM           94
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:30:00 PM           75
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:45:00 PM           80        323     1941
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:00:00 AM           74
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:15:00 AM           82
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:30:00 AM           88
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:45:00 AM           91        335
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:00:00 AM          126
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:15:00 AM           86
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:30:00 AM          122
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:45:00 AM          100        434
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:00:00 AM           62
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:15:00 AM           48
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:30:00 AM           65
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:45:00 AM           76        251
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:00:00 PM           62
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:15:00 PM           63
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:30:00 PM           67
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:45:00 PM           65        257
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:00:00 PM           74
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:15:00 PM           75
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:30:00 PM           91
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:45:00 PM           76        316
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:00:00 PM           82
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:15:00 PM           89
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:30:00 PM           84
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:45:00 PM          105        360     1953



                                                                                                          Page 90
                                                  Turning Movement Counts 
                                                  SR 714 at Citrus Boulevard

                                                                                     Hourly        Daily 
Detector Title   Date                                   Time           Volume        Total         Total
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:00:00 AM           2
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:15:00 AM           9
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:30:00 AM          30
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:45:00 AM          10         51
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:00:00 AM           1
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:15:00 AM           0
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:30:00 AM           2
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:45:00 AM           1             4
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:00:00 AM           4
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:15:00 AM           2
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:30:00 AM           0
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:45:00 AM           0             6
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:00:00 PM           4
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:15:00 PM           2
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:30:00 PM           3
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:45:00 PM           3         12
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:00:00 PM           5
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:15:00 PM           1
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:30:00 PM           5
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:45:00 PM           0         11
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:00:00 PM           2
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:15:00 PM           4
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:30:00 PM           0
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:45:00 PM           3             9            93
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:00:00 AM           7
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:15:00 AM           9
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:30:00 AM          31
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:45:00 AM          12         59
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:00:00 AM           2
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:15:00 AM           1
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:30:00 AM           1
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:45:00 AM           3             7
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:00:00 AM           0
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:15:00 AM           0
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:30:00 AM           2
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:45:00 AM           0             2
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:00:00 PM           5
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:15:00 PM           3
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:30:00 PM           1
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:45:00 PM           1         10
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:00:00 PM           1
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:15:00 PM           5
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:30:00 PM           4
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:45:00 PM           3         13
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:00:00 PM           2
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:15:00 PM           1
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:30:00 PM           0
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:45:00 PM           4             7            98
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:00:00 AM           3
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:15:00 AM           6
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:30:00 AM          28
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:45:00 AM          10         47
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:00:00 AM           5
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:15:00 AM           5
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:30:00 AM           6
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:45:00 AM           5         21
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:00:00 AM           2
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:15:00 AM           0
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:30:00 AM           1
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:45:00 AM           0             3
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:00:00 PM           2
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:15:00 PM           2
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:30:00 PM           0
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:45:00 PM           1             5
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:00:00 PM           3
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:15:00 PM           1
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:30:00 PM           1
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:45:00 PM           4             9
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:00:00 PM           2
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:15:00 PM           3
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:30:00 PM           5
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:45:00 PM           3         13               98



                                                                                                                 Page 91
                                                  Turning Movement Counts 
                                                  SR 714 at Citrus Boulevard

                                                                                     Hourly         Daily 
Detector Title   Date                                   Time           Volume        Total          Total
EBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:00:00 AM          15
EBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:15:00 AM           3
EBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:30:00 AM          14
EBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:45:00 AM          20             52
EBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:00:00 AM          26
EBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:15:00 AM          26
EBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:30:00 AM          12
EBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:45:00 AM          16             80
EBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:00:00 AM          12
EBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:15:00 AM          15
EBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:30:00 AM          12
EBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:45:00 AM           3             42
EBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:00:00 PM           6
EBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:15:00 PM          11
EBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:30:00 PM          10
EBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:45:00 PM          18             45
EBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:00:00 PM          10
EBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:15:00 PM           8
EBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:30:00 PM          15
EBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:45:00 PM          14             47
EBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:00:00 PM          15
EBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:15:00 PM           6
EBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:30:00 PM          13
EBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:45:00 PM          21             55       321
EBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:00:00 AM           5
EBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:15:00 AM          14
EBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:30:00 AM           3
EBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:45:00 AM          17             39
EBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:00:00 AM          16
EBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:15:00 AM          13
EBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:30:00 AM          10
EBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:45:00 AM          12             51
EBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:00:00 AM           5
EBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:15:00 AM           4
EBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:30:00 AM           7
EBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:45:00 AM          13             29
EBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:00:00 PM          15
EBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:15:00 PM           7
EBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:30:00 PM          18
EBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:45:00 PM           5             45
EBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:00:00 PM           7
EBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:15:00 PM          12
EBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:30:00 PM          22
EBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:45:00 PM          11             52
EBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:00:00 PM          21
EBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:15:00 PM           4
EBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:30:00 PM          22
EBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:45:00 PM          18             65       281
EBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:00:00 AM           6
EBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:15:00 AM           5
EBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:30:00 AM           9
EBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:45:00 AM          14             34
EBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:00:00 AM          22
EBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:15:00 AM          15
EBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:30:00 AM          16
EBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:45:00 AM          11             64
EBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:00:00 AM           4
EBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:15:00 AM           6
EBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:30:00 AM          11
EBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:45:00 AM          15             36
EBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:00:00 PM           9
EBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:15:00 PM           9
EBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:30:00 PM          14
EBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:45:00 PM           9             41
EBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:00:00 PM          12
EBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:15:00 PM          11
EBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:30:00 PM          15
EBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:45:00 PM          13             51
EBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:00:00 PM          16
EBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:15:00 PM          13
EBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:30:00 PM           8
EBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:45:00 PM           7             44       270



                                                                                                              Page 92
                                                Turning Movement Counts 
                                                SR 714 at Citrus Boulevard

                                                                                   Hourly         Daily 
Detector Title   Date                                 Time           Volume        Total          Total
NBT                       Tuesday, October 04, 2011       7:00:00 AM           8
NBT                       Tuesday, October 04, 2011       7:15:00 AM          10
NBT                       Tuesday, October 04, 2011       7:30:00 AM          23
NBT                       Tuesday, October 04, 2011       7:45:00 AM           8             49
NBT                       Tuesday, October 04, 2011       8:00:00 AM           4
NBT                       Tuesday, October 04, 2011       8:15:00 AM           5
NBT                       Tuesday, October 04, 2011       8:30:00 AM           3
NBT                       Tuesday, October 04, 2011       8:45:00 AM           3             15
NBT                       Tuesday, October 04, 2011      11:00:00 AM           5
NBT                       Tuesday, October 04, 2011      11:15:00 AM           5
NBT                       Tuesday, October 04, 2011      11:30:00 AM           4
NBT                       Tuesday, October 04, 2011      11:45:00 AM           3             17
NBT                       Tuesday, October 04, 2011      12:00:00 PM           4
NBT                       Tuesday, October 04, 2011      12:15:00 PM           5
NBT                       Tuesday, October 04, 2011      12:30:00 PM           2
NBT                       Tuesday, October 04, 2011      12:45:00 PM           4             15
NBT                       Tuesday, October 04, 2011       4:00:00 PM          10
NBT                       Tuesday, October 04, 2011       4:15:00 PM          14
NBT                       Tuesday, October 04, 2011       4:30:00 PM          10
NBT                       Tuesday, October 04, 2011       4:45:00 PM           4             38
NBT                       Tuesday, October 04, 2011       5:00:00 PM          14
NBT                       Tuesday, October 04, 2011       5:15:00 PM           8
NBT                       Tuesday, October 04, 2011       5:30:00 PM          12
NBT                       Tuesday, October 04, 2011       5:45:00 PM          12             46       180
NBT                     Wednesday, October 05, 2011       7:00:00 AM           8
NBT                     Wednesday, October 05, 2011       7:15:00 AM           7
NBT                     Wednesday, October 05, 2011       7:30:00 AM          22
NBT                     Wednesday, October 05, 2011       7:45:00 AM          11             48
NBT                     Wednesday, October 05, 2011       8:00:00 AM           0
NBT                     Wednesday, October 05, 2011       8:15:00 AM           4
NBT                     Wednesday, October 05, 2011       8:30:00 AM           8
NBT                     Wednesday, October 05, 2011       8:45:00 AM          16             28
NBT                     Wednesday, October 05, 2011      11:00:00 AM           4
NBT                     Wednesday, October 05, 2011      11:15:00 AM           3
NBT                     Wednesday, October 05, 2011      11:30:00 AM           5
NBT                     Wednesday, October 05, 2011      11:45:00 AM           2             14
NBT                     Wednesday, October 05, 2011      12:00:00 PM           7
NBT                     Wednesday, October 05, 2011      12:15:00 PM           3
NBT                     Wednesday, October 05, 2011      12:30:00 PM           1
NBT                     Wednesday, October 05, 2011      12:45:00 PM           3             14
NBT                     Wednesday, October 05, 2011       4:00:00 PM          11
NBT                     Wednesday, October 05, 2011       4:15:00 PM          15
NBT                     Wednesday, October 05, 2011       4:30:00 PM          11
NBT                     Wednesday, October 05, 2011       4:45:00 PM           6             43
NBT                     Wednesday, October 05, 2011       5:00:00 PM           6
NBT                     Wednesday, October 05, 2011       5:15:00 PM          16
NBT                     Wednesday, October 05, 2011       5:30:00 PM          10
NBT                     Wednesday, October 05, 2011       5:45:00 PM          14             46       193
NBT                      Thursday, October 06, 2011       7:00:00 AM          10
NBT                      Thursday, October 06, 2011       7:15:00 AM           8
NBT                      Thursday, October 06, 2011       7:30:00 AM          20
NBT                      Thursday, October 06, 2011       7:45:00 AM           8             46
NBT                      Thursday, October 06, 2011       8:00:00 AM           4
NBT                      Thursday, October 06, 2011       8:15:00 AM           6
NBT                      Thursday, October 06, 2011       8:30:00 AM           4
NBT                      Thursday, October 06, 2011       8:45:00 AM           6             20
NBT                      Thursday, October 06, 2011      11:00:00 AM           6
NBT                      Thursday, October 06, 2011      11:15:00 AM           3
NBT                      Thursday, October 06, 2011      11:30:00 AM           2
NBT                      Thursday, October 06, 2011      11:45:00 AM           2             13
NBT                      Thursday, October 06, 2011      12:00:00 PM           6
NBT                      Thursday, October 06, 2011      12:15:00 PM           3
NBT                      Thursday, October 06, 2011      12:30:00 PM           8
NBT                      Thursday, October 06, 2011      12:45:00 PM           3             20
NBT                      Thursday, October 06, 2011       4:00:00 PM          15
NBT                      Thursday, October 06, 2011       4:15:00 PM           7
NBT                      Thursday, October 06, 2011       4:30:00 PM          11
NBT                      Thursday, October 06, 2011       4:45:00 PM           8             41
NBT                      Thursday, October 06, 2011       5:00:00 PM          11
NBT                      Thursday, October 06, 2011       5:15:00 PM          17
NBT                      Thursday, October 06, 2011       5:30:00 PM          11
NBT                      Thursday, October 06, 2011       5:45:00 PM          15             54       194



                                                                                                            Page 93
                                                Turning Movement Counts 
                                                SR 714 at Citrus Boulevard

                                                                                   Hourly         Daily 
Detector Title   Date                                 Time           Volume        Total          Total
NBLT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011       7:00:00 AM          10
NBLT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011       7:15:00 AM          10
NBLT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011       7:30:00 AM          15
NBLT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011       7:45:00 AM           9             44
NBLT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011       8:00:00 AM          15
NBLT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011       8:15:00 AM          14
NBLT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011       8:30:00 AM          11
NBLT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011       8:45:00 AM          10             50
NBLT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011      11:00:00 AM           5
NBLT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011      11:15:00 AM          10
NBLT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011      11:30:00 AM          12
NBLT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011      11:45:00 AM           4             31
NBLT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011      12:00:00 PM           6
NBLT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011      12:15:00 PM           5
NBLT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011      12:30:00 PM           9
NBLT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011      12:45:00 PM           4             24
NBLT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011       4:00:00 PM          12
NBLT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011       4:15:00 PM           8
NBLT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011       4:30:00 PM          13
NBLT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011       4:45:00 PM          12             45
NBLT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011       5:00:00 PM          14
NBLT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011       5:15:00 PM          15
NBLT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011       5:30:00 PM          13
NBLT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011       5:45:00 PM           9             51       245
NBLT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011       7:00:00 AM          11
NBLT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011       7:15:00 AM           9
NBLT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011       7:30:00 AM          15
NBLT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011       7:45:00 AM          12             47
NBLT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011       8:00:00 AM          11
NBLT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011       8:15:00 AM          12
NBLT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011       8:30:00 AM          13
NBLT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011       8:45:00 AM          11             47
NBLT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011      11:00:00 AM           7
NBLT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011      11:15:00 AM           9
NBLT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011      11:30:00 AM           2
NBLT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011      11:45:00 AM           9             27
NBLT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011      12:00:00 PM           5
NBLT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011      12:15:00 PM           8
NBLT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011      12:30:00 PM           2
NBLT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011      12:45:00 PM           4             19
NBLT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011       4:00:00 PM           6
NBLT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011       4:15:00 PM          16
NBLT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011       4:30:00 PM           5
NBLT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011       4:45:00 PM          16             43
NBLT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011       5:00:00 PM           7
NBLT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011       5:15:00 PM           9
NBLT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011       5:30:00 PM          11
NBLT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011       5:45:00 PM          17             44       227
NBLT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011       7:00:00 AM          13
NBLT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011       7:15:00 AM          18
NBLT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011       7:30:00 AM          11
NBLT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011       7:45:00 AM          11             53
NBLT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011       8:00:00 AM          14
NBLT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011       8:15:00 AM          11
NBLT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011       8:30:00 AM          10
NBLT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011       8:45:00 AM           9             44
NBLT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011      11:00:00 AM          20
NBLT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011      11:15:00 AM           9
NBLT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011      11:30:00 AM           5
NBLT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011      11:45:00 AM           5             39
NBLT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011      12:00:00 PM           4
NBLT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011      12:15:00 PM           6
NBLT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011      12:30:00 PM           7
NBLT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011      12:45:00 PM           4             21
NBLT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011       4:00:00 PM          13
NBLT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011       4:15:00 PM           7
NBLT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011       4:30:00 PM           9
NBLT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011       4:45:00 PM           7             36
NBLT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011       5:00:00 PM          21
NBLT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011       5:15:00 PM          13
NBLT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011       5:30:00 PM           9
NBLT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011       5:45:00 PM          10             53       246



                                                                                                            Page 94
                                                Turning Movement Counts 
                                                SR 714 at Citrus Boulevard

                                                                                   Hourly  Daily 
Detector Title   Date                                 Time           Volume        Total   Total
NBRT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011       7:00:00 AM          80
NBRT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011       7:15:00 AM          41
NBRT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011       7:30:00 AM          50
NBRT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011       7:45:00 AM          49       220
NBRT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011       8:00:00 AM          41
NBRT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011       8:15:00 AM          47
NBRT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011       8:30:00 AM          31
NBRT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011       8:45:00 AM          35       154
NBRT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011      11:00:00 AM          36
NBRT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011      11:15:00 AM          29
NBRT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011      11:30:00 AM          36
NBRT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011      11:45:00 AM          42       143
NBRT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011      12:00:00 PM          38
NBRT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011      12:15:00 PM          42
NBRT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011      12:30:00 PM          40
NBRT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011      12:45:00 PM          56       176
NBRT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011       4:00:00 PM          51
NBRT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011       4:15:00 PM          32
NBRT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011       4:30:00 PM          52
NBRT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011       4:45:00 PM          32       167
NBRT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011       5:00:00 PM          35
NBRT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011       5:15:00 PM          49
NBRT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011       5:30:00 PM          42
NBRT                      Tuesday, October 04, 2011       5:45:00 PM          50       176    1036
NBRT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011       7:00:00 AM          70
NBRT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011       7:15:00 AM          63
NBRT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011       7:30:00 AM          46
NBRT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011       7:45:00 AM          42       221
NBRT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011       8:00:00 AM          60
NBRT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011       8:15:00 AM          48
NBRT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011       8:30:00 AM          41
NBRT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011       8:45:00 AM          40       189
NBRT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011      11:00:00 AM          32
NBRT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011      11:15:00 AM          32
NBRT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011      11:30:00 AM          30
NBRT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011      11:45:00 AM          32       126
NBRT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011      12:00:00 PM          31
NBRT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011      12:15:00 PM          25
NBRT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011      12:30:00 PM          35
NBRT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011      12:45:00 PM          68       159
NBRT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011       4:00:00 PM          39
NBRT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011       4:15:00 PM          51
NBRT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011       4:30:00 PM          44
NBRT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011       4:45:00 PM          43       177
NBRT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011       5:00:00 PM          52
NBRT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011       5:15:00 PM          63
NBRT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011       5:30:00 PM          48
NBRT                    Wednesday, October 05, 2011       5:45:00 PM          46       209    1081
NBRT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011       7:00:00 AM          63
NBRT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011       7:15:00 AM          66
NBRT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011       7:30:00 AM          56
NBRT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011       7:45:00 AM          46       231
NBRT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011       8:00:00 AM          48
NBRT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011       8:15:00 AM          57
NBRT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011       8:30:00 AM          44
NBRT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011       8:45:00 AM          42       191
NBRT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011      11:00:00 AM          25
NBRT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011      11:15:00 AM          33
NBRT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011      11:30:00 AM          39
NBRT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011      11:45:00 AM          36       133
NBRT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011      12:00:00 PM          34
NBRT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011      12:15:00 PM          45
NBRT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011      12:30:00 PM          50
NBRT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011      12:45:00 PM          48       177
NBRT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011       4:00:00 PM          36
NBRT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011       4:15:00 PM          43
NBRT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011       4:30:00 PM          38
NBRT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011       4:45:00 PM          41       158
NBRT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011       5:00:00 PM          36
NBRT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011       5:15:00 PM          41
NBRT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011       5:30:00 PM          42
NBRT                     Thursday, October 06, 2011       5:45:00 PM          46       165    1055



                                                                                                     Page 95
                                                  Turning Movement Counts 
                                                  SR 714 at Citrus Boulevard

                                                                                    Hourly  Daily 
Detector Title   Date                                 Time           Volume         Total   Total
SBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011     7:00:00 AM            9
SBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011     7:15:00 AM            7
SBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011     7:30:00 AM           31
SBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011     7:45:00 AM           13        60
SBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011     8:00:00 AM           14
SBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011     8:15:00 AM            7
SBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011     8:30:00 AM            4
SBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011     8:45:00 AM            8        33
SBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011    11:00:00 AM            3
SBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011    11:15:00 AM            2
SBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011    11:30:00 AM            1
SBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011    11:45:00 AM            1         7
SBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011    12:00:00 PM            4
SBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011    12:15:00 PM            2
SBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011    12:30:00 PM            1
SBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011    12:45:00 PM            3        10
SBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011     4:00:00 PM            4
SBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011     4:15:00 PM            2
SBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011     4:30:00 PM            5
SBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011     4:45:00 PM            6        17
SBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011     5:00:00 PM            4
SBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011     5:15:00 PM            3
SBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011     5:30:00 PM            5
SBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011     5:45:00 PM            3        15     142
SBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011     7:00:00 AM           19
SBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011     7:15:00 AM            9
SBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011     7:30:00 AM           21
SBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011     7:45:00 AM           21        70
SBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011     8:00:00 AM           18
SBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011     8:15:00 AM            5
SBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011     8:30:00 AM            9
SBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011     8:45:00 AM           13        45
SBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011    11:00:00 AM            6
SBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011    11:15:00 AM            1
SBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011    11:30:00 AM            4
SBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011    11:45:00 AM            1        12
SBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011    12:00:00 PM            5
SBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011    12:15:00 PM            1
SBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011    12:30:00 PM            5
SBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011    12:45:00 PM            1        12
SBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011     4:00:00 PM            2
SBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011     4:15:00 PM            5
SBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011     4:30:00 PM            2
SBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011     4:45:00 PM            5        14
SBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011     5:00:00 PM            3
SBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011     5:15:00 PM            6
SBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011     5:30:00 PM            6
SBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011     5:45:00 PM            3        18     171
SBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011     7:00:00 AM           17
SBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011     7:15:00 AM           12
SBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011     7:30:00 AM           18
SBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011     7:45:00 AM           14        61
SBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011     8:00:00 AM           30
SBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011     8:15:00 AM           17
SBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011     8:30:00 AM           17
SBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011     8:45:00 AM            8        72
SBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011 11:00:00 AM               3
SBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011 11:15:00 AM               3
SBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011 11:30:00 AM               3
SBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011 11:45:00 AM               3        12
SBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011    12:00:00 PM            4
SBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011    12:15:00 PM            2
SBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011    12:30:00 PM            3
SBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011    12:45:00 PM            2        11
SBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011     4:00:00 PM            8
SBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011     4:15:00 PM            2
SBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011     4:30:00 PM            3
SBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011     4:45:00 PM            4        17
SBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011     5:00:00 PM            5
SBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011     5:15:00 PM            8
SBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011     5:30:00 PM            1
SBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011     5:45:00 PM            4        18     191



                                                                                                      Page 96
                                                  Turning Movement Counts 
                                                  SR 714 at Citrus Boulevard

                                                                                     Hourly  Daily 
Detector Title   Date                                 Time           Volume          Total   Total
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     7:00:00 AM            42
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     7:15:00 AM            31
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     7:30:00 AM            78
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     7:45:00 AM            73       224
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     8:00:00 AM            44
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     8:15:00 AM            21
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     8:30:00 AM            38
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     8:45:00 AM            21       124
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011    11:00:00 AM            13
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011    11:15:00 AM            11
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011    11:30:00 AM             8
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011    11:45:00 AM            17        49
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011    12:00:00 PM            14
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011    12:15:00 PM            19
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011    12:30:00 PM            10
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011    12:45:00 PM            10        53
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     4:00:00 PM             9
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     4:15:00 PM            10
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     4:30:00 PM             8
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     4:45:00 PM            14        41
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     5:00:00 PM             6
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     5:15:00 PM            13
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     5:30:00 PM             9
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     5:45:00 PM             6        34     525
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     7:00:00 AM            34
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     7:15:00 AM            40
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     7:30:00 AM            80
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     7:45:00 AM            63       217
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     8:00:00 AM            39
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     8:15:00 AM            26
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     8:30:00 AM            38
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     8:45:00 AM            70       173
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011    11:00:00 AM            10
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011    11:15:00 AM            14
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011    11:30:00 AM            16
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011    11:45:00 AM            12        52
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011    12:00:00 PM            16
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011    12:15:00 PM            20
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011    12:30:00 PM            19
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011    12:45:00 PM            12        67
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     4:00:00 PM            11
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     4:15:00 PM            11
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     4:30:00 PM            13
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     4:45:00 PM             5        40
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     5:00:00 PM            12
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     5:15:00 PM            19
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     5:30:00 PM            17
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     5:45:00 PM             9        57     606
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     7:00:00 AM            38
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     7:15:00 AM            31
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     7:30:00 AM            83
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     7:45:00 AM           119       271
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     8:00:00 AM            90
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     8:15:00 AM            53
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     8:30:00 AM            56
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     8:45:00 AM            72       271
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011 11:00:00 AM               13
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011 11:15:00 AM               10
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011 11:30:00 AM               11
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011 11:45:00 AM                8        42
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011    12:00:00 PM            20
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011    12:15:00 PM             7
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011    12:30:00 PM             5
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011    12:45:00 PM             5        37
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     4:00:00 PM            13
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     4:15:00 PM             7
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     4:30:00 PM             9
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     4:45:00 PM            16        45
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     5:00:00 PM            13
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     5:15:00 PM            13
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     5:30:00 PM            29
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     5:45:00 PM            13        68     734



                                                                                                       Page 97
                                                  Turning Movement Counts 
                                                  SR 714 at Citrus Boulevard

                                                                                  Hourly  Daily 
Detector Title   Date                                 Time           Volume       Total     Total
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     7:00:00 AM            2 
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     7:15:00 AM            7
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     7:30:00 AM           22
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     7:45:00 AM           15        46
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     8:00:00 AM           13  
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     8:15:00 AM            8
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     8:30:00 AM            4
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     8:45:00 AM            4        29
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011    11:00:00 AM            4 
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011    11:15:00 AM            8
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011    11:30:00 AM            6
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011    11:45:00 AM            4        22
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011    12:00:00 PM            5 
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011    12:15:00 PM            2
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011    12:30:00 PM            7
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011    12:45:00 PM            2        16
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     4:00:00 PM            4 
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     4:15:00 PM            9
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     4:30:00 PM            1
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     4:45:00 PM            5        19
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     5:00:00 PM            4 
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     5:15:00 PM            7
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     5:30:00 PM            5
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     5:45:00 PM            6        22     154
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     7:00:00 AM            2 
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     7:15:00 AM           10
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     7:30:00 AM           17
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     7:45:00 AM           22        51
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     8:00:00 AM           10  
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     8:15:00 AM           10
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     8:30:00 AM           10
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     8:45:00 AM           18        48
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011    11:00:00 AM            4 
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011    11:15:00 AM            5
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011    11:30:00 AM            5
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011    11:45:00 AM            7        21
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011    12:00:00 PM            7 
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011    12:15:00 PM            5
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011    12:30:00 PM            3
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011    12:45:00 PM            3        18
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     4:00:00 PM            3 
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     4:15:00 PM            3
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     4:30:00 PM            9
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     4:45:00 PM            3        18
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     5:00:00 PM            4 
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     5:15:00 PM            1
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     5:30:00 PM            2
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     5:45:00 PM            7        14     170
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     7:00:00 AM            5 
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     7:15:00 AM            7
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     7:30:00 AM           17
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     7:45:00 AM           21        50
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     8:00:00 AM           39  
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     8:15:00 AM           42
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     8:30:00 AM           22
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     8:45:00 AM           16       119
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011 11:00:00 AM               4 
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011 11:15:00 AM               4
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011 11:30:00 AM               1
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011 11:45:00 AM               3        12
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011    12:00:00 PM            7 
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011    12:15:00 PM            2
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011    12:30:00 PM            3
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011    12:45:00 PM            3        15
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     4:00:00 PM            6 
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     4:15:00 PM            2
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     4:30:00 PM           10
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     4:45:00 PM            6        24
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     5:00:00 PM            4 
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     5:15:00 PM            7
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     5:30:00 PM            3
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     5:45:00 PM            4        18     238



                                                                                                      Page 98
                                                  Turning Movement Counts 
                                                  SR 714 at Citrus Boulevard

                                                                                     Hourly     Daily 
Detector Title   Date                                 Time           Volume          Total      Total
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011     7:00:00 AM            44
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011     7:15:00 AM            51
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011     7:30:00 AM            76
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011     7:45:00 AM            85        256
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011     8:00:00 AM            60
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011     8:15:00 AM            67
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011     8:30:00 AM            57
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011     8:45:00 AM            81        265
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011    11:00:00 AM            58
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011    11:15:00 AM            67
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011    11:30:00 AM            63
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011    11:45:00 AM            57        245
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011    12:00:00 PM            59
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011    12:15:00 PM            54
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011    12:30:00 PM            61
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011    12:45:00 PM            84        258
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011     4:00:00 PM           104
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011     4:15:00 PM           105
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011     4:30:00 PM           113
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011     4:45:00 PM            94        416
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011     5:00:00 PM           109
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011     5:15:00 PM           122
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011     5:30:00 PM           101
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011     5:45:00 PM            88        420      1860
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011     7:00:00 AM            62
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011     7:15:00 AM            63
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011     7:30:00 AM            70
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011     7:45:00 AM            66        261
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011     8:00:00 AM            76
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011     8:15:00 AM            70
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011     8:30:00 AM            76
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011     8:45:00 AM            66        288
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011    11:00:00 AM            44
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011    11:15:00 AM            61
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011    11:30:00 AM            72
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011    11:45:00 AM            46        223
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011    12:00:00 PM            72
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011    12:15:00 PM            46
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011    12:30:00 PM            62
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011    12:45:00 PM            93        273
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011     4:00:00 PM           101
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011     4:15:00 PM            93
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011     4:30:00 PM           123
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011     4:45:00 PM           116        433
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011     5:00:00 PM           102
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011     5:15:00 PM           143
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011     5:30:00 PM           114
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011     5:45:00 PM            99        458      1936
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011     7:00:00 AM            49
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011     7:15:00 AM            58
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011     7:30:00 AM            61
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011     7:45:00 AM            68        236
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011     8:00:00 AM            78
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011     8:15:00 AM            56
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011     8:30:00 AM            68
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011     8:45:00 AM            69        271
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011 11:00:00 AM               56
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011 11:15:00 AM               58
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011 11:30:00 AM               60
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011 11:45:00 AM               70        244
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011    12:00:00 PM            44
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011    12:15:00 PM            64
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011    12:30:00 PM            75
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011    12:45:00 PM            78        261
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011     4:00:00 PM            79
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011     4:15:00 PM            93
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011     4:30:00 PM           134
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011     4:45:00 PM           118        424
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011     5:00:00 PM            98
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011     5:15:00 PM           122
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011     5:30:00 PM           114
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011     5:45:00 PM           100        434      1870



                                                                                                          Page 99
                                                  Turning Movement Counts 
                                                  SR 714 at Citrus Boulevard

                                                                                  Hourly  Daily 
Detector Title   Date                                 Time           Volume       Total     Total
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     7:00:00 AM           25  
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     7:15:00 AM           17
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     7:30:00 AM           16
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     7:45:00 AM           33        91
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     8:00:00 AM           15  
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     8:15:00 AM           18
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     8:30:00 AM           23
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     8:45:00 AM           28        84
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011    11:00:00 AM           32  
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011    11:15:00 AM           22
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011    11:30:00 AM           23
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011    11:45:00 AM           13        90
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011    12:00:00 PM           23  
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011    12:15:00 PM           33
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011    12:30:00 PM           39
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011    12:45:00 PM           25       120
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     4:00:00 PM           28  
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     4:15:00 PM           37
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     4:30:00 PM           40
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     4:45:00 PM           38       143
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     5:00:00 PM           32  
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     5:15:00 PM           49
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     5:30:00 PM           50
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     5:45:00 PM           41       172     700
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     7:00:00 AM           26  
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     7:15:00 AM           17
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     7:30:00 AM           19
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     7:45:00 AM           24        86
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     8:00:00 AM           22  
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     8:15:00 AM           21
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     8:30:00 AM           29
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     8:45:00 AM           41       113
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011    11:00:00 AM           15  
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011    11:15:00 AM           21
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011    11:30:00 AM           25
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011    11:45:00 AM           24        85
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011    12:00:00 PM           26  
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011    12:15:00 PM           33
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011    12:30:00 PM           40
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011    12:45:00 PM           28       127
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     4:00:00 PM           35  
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     4:15:00 PM           31
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     4:30:00 PM           57
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     4:45:00 PM           45       168
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     5:00:00 PM           41  
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     5:15:00 PM           42
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     5:30:00 PM           37
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     5:45:00 PM           58       178     757
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     7:00:00 AM           34  
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     7:15:00 AM           20
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     7:30:00 AM           21
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     7:45:00 AM           19        94
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     8:00:00 AM           17  
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     8:15:00 AM           31
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     8:30:00 AM           34
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     8:45:00 AM           37       119
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011 11:00:00 AM              19  
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011 11:15:00 AM              18
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011 11:30:00 AM              24
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011 11:45:00 AM              20        81
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011    12:00:00 PM           21  
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011    12:15:00 PM           30
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011    12:30:00 PM           42
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011    12:45:00 PM           31       124
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     4:00:00 PM           37  
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     4:15:00 PM           49
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     4:30:00 PM           44
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     4:45:00 PM           53       183
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     5:00:00 PM           34  
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     5:15:00 PM           59
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     5:30:00 PM           51
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     5:45:00 PM           44       188     789



                                                                                                      Page 100
                                                  Turning Movement Counts 
                                                  SR 714 at Citrus Boulevard

                                                                                   Hourly  Daily 
Detector Title   Date                                 Time           Volume        Total     Total
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     7:00:00 AM            28  
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     7:15:00 AM            58
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     7:30:00 AM           107
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     7:45:00 AM            33       226
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     8:00:00 AM            20  
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     8:15:00 AM             5
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     8:30:00 AM            13
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     8:45:00 AM            13        51
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011    11:00:00 AM            14  
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011    11:15:00 AM            13
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011    11:30:00 AM             8
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011    11:45:00 AM            18        53
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011    12:00:00 PM            26  
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011    12:15:00 PM            26
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011    12:30:00 PM             9
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011    12:45:00 PM            13        74
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     4:00:00 PM            56  
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     4:15:00 PM            50
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     4:30:00 PM            58
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     4:45:00 PM            59       223
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     5:00:00 PM            75  
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     5:15:00 PM            98
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     5:30:00 PM            67
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011     5:45:00 PM            76       316     943
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     7:00:00 AM            31  
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     7:15:00 AM            65
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     7:30:00 AM           133
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     7:45:00 AM            35       264
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     8:00:00 AM            17  
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     8:15:00 AM            16
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     8:30:00 AM            18
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     8:45:00 AM            10        61
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011    11:00:00 AM             3 
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011    11:15:00 AM            29
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011    11:30:00 AM            15
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011    11:45:00 AM            10        57
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011    12:00:00 PM            12  
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011    12:15:00 PM            17
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011    12:30:00 PM            22
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011    12:45:00 PM            16        67
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     4:00:00 PM            44  
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     4:15:00 PM            44
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     4:30:00 PM            62
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     4:45:00 PM            47       197
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     5:00:00 PM            68  
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     5:15:00 PM            86
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     5:30:00 PM            81
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011     5:45:00 PM            65       300     946
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     7:00:00 AM            33  
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     7:15:00 AM            84
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     7:30:00 AM           142
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     7:45:00 AM            73       332
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     8:00:00 AM            37  
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     8:15:00 AM            52
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     8:30:00 AM            35
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     8:45:00 AM            25       149
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011 11:00:00 AM               15  
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011 11:15:00 AM               21
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011 11:30:00 AM               14
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011 11:45:00 AM               16        66
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011    12:00:00 PM            14  
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011    12:15:00 PM            11
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011    12:30:00 PM            17
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011    12:45:00 PM            14        56
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     4:00:00 PM            47  
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     4:15:00 PM            53
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     4:30:00 PM            67
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     4:45:00 PM            68       235
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     5:00:00 PM            58  
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     5:15:00 PM           109
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     5:30:00 PM            73
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011     5:45:00 PM            57       297    1135



                                                                                                       Page 101
                                                    Turning Movement Counts 
                                                    SR 714 at SW 42nd Avenue

                                                                                      Hourly     Daily 
Detector Title   Date                                   Time           Volume         Total      Total 
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:00:00 AM          161
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:15:00 AM          171
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:30:00 AM          251
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:45:00 AM          279        862
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:00:00 AM          249
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:15:00 AM          167
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:30:00 AM          190
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:45:00 AM          159        765
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:00:00 AM           94
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:15:00 AM          113
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:30:00 AM          104
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:45:00 AM           99        410
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:00:00 PM          100
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:15:00 PM          127
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:30:00 PM          121
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:45:00 PM          119        467
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:00:00 PM          135
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:15:00 PM          145
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:30:00 PM          162
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:45:00 PM          116        558
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:00:00 PM          139
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:15:00 PM          170
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:30:00 PM          156
EBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:45:00 PM          176        641     3703
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:00:00 AM          156
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:15:00 AM          181
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:30:00 AM          234
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:45:00 AM          233        804
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:00:00 AM          266
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:15:00 AM          175
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:30:00 AM          185
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:45:00 AM          172        798
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:00:00 AM          131
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:15:00 AM          103
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:30:00 AM          122
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:45:00 AM          106        462
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:00:00 PM          108
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:15:00 PM          114
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:30:00 PM          106
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:45:00 PM          128        456
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:00:00 PM          149
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:15:00 PM          113
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:30:00 PM          144
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:45:00 PM          146        552
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:00:00 PM          122
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:15:00 PM          150
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:30:00 PM          142
EBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:45:00 PM          159        573     3645
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:00:00 AM          180
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:15:00 AM          180
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:30:00 AM          253
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:45:00 AM          279        892
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:00:00 AM          238
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:15:00 AM          172
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:30:00 AM          185
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:45:00 AM          152        747
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:00:00 AM          108
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:15:00 AM          114
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:30:00 AM          125
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:45:00 AM          103        450
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:00:00 PM           94
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:15:00 PM           92
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:30:00 PM          107
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:45:00 PM          119        412
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:00:00 PM          130
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:15:00 PM          123
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:30:00 PM          127
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:45:00 PM          137        517
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:00:00 PM          133
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:15:00 PM          169
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:30:00 PM          123
EBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:45:00 PM          128        553     3571




                                                                                                          Page 102
                                                    Turning Movement Counts 
                                                    SR 714 at SW 42nd Avenue

                                                                                     Hourly     Daily 
Detector Title   Date                                   Time           Volume        Total      Total 
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:00:00 AM          19
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:15:00 AM          13
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:30:00 AM           7
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:45:00 AM          16         55
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:00:00 AM          29
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:15:00 AM          17
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:30:00 AM          15
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:45:00 AM           9         70
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:00:00 AM           4
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:15:00 AM           4
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:30:00 AM           5
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:45:00 AM           5         18
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:00:00 PM          10
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:15:00 PM           8
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:30:00 PM           4
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:45:00 PM           1         23
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:00:00 PM          14
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:15:00 PM           6
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:30:00 PM           2
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:45:00 PM           4         26
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:00:00 PM           4
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:15:00 PM           3
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:30:00 PM           3
EBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:45:00 PM          10         20        212
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:00:00 AM          10
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:15:00 AM           7
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:30:00 AM          12
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:45:00 AM           8         37
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:00:00 AM          23
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:15:00 AM          14
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:30:00 AM          19
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:45:00 AM           8         64
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:00:00 AM           4
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:15:00 AM           6
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:30:00 AM          10
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:45:00 AM           4         24
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:00:00 PM           7
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:15:00 PM           6
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:30:00 PM           3
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:45:00 PM           6         22
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:00:00 PM           9
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:15:00 PM           5
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:30:00 PM           2
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:45:00 PM           7         23
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:00:00 PM          13
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:15:00 PM          13
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:30:00 PM          10
EBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:45:00 PM          14         50        220
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:00:00 AM          17
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:15:00 AM           9
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:30:00 AM           8
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:45:00 AM          17         51
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:00:00 AM          23
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:15:00 AM          14
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:30:00 AM          20
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:45:00 AM          12         69
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:00:00 AM           2
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:15:00 AM           6
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:30:00 AM           4
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:45:00 AM           6         18
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:00:00 PM           8
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:15:00 PM           4
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:30:00 PM           6
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:45:00 PM           5         23
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:00:00 PM           6
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:15:00 PM           6
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:30:00 PM           4
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:45:00 PM          10         26
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:00:00 PM           5
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:15:00 PM           2
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:30:00 PM           2
EBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:45:00 PM           5         14        201




                                                                                                           Page 103
                                                    Turning Movement Counts 
                                                    SR 714 at SW 42nd Avenue

                                                                                      Hourly     Daily 
Detector Title   Date                                   Time           Volume         Total      Total 
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:00:00 AM          109
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:15:00 AM          153
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:30:00 AM          226
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:45:00 AM          137        625
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:00:00 AM          131
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:15:00 AM          118
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:30:00 AM          123
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:45:00 AM          128        500
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:00:00 AM           66
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:15:00 AM          107
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:30:00 AM          112
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:45:00 AM           86        371
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:00:00 PM          108
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:15:00 PM           95
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:30:00 PM          125
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:45:00 PM          138        466
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:00:00 PM          191
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:15:00 PM          181
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:30:00 PM          231
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:45:00 PM          194        797
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:00:00 PM          208
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:15:00 PM          246
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:30:00 PM          251
WBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:45:00 PM          223        928      3687
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:00:00 AM          100
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:15:00 AM          135
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:30:00 AM          219
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:45:00 AM          138        592
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:00:00 AM          137
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:15:00 AM          150
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:30:00 AM          142
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:45:00 AM          134        563
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:00:00 AM           83
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:15:00 AM           91
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:30:00 AM           91
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:45:00 AM          107        372
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:00:00 PM           80
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:15:00 PM          104
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:30:00 PM          135
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:45:00 PM          128        447
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:00:00 PM          173
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:15:00 PM          176
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:30:00 PM          238
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:45:00 PM          225        812
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:00:00 PM          198
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:15:00 PM          244
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:30:00 PM          224
WBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:45:00 PM          187        853      3639
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:00:00 AM           97
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:15:00 AM          122
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:30:00 AM          254
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:45:00 AM          145        618
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:00:00 AM          112
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:15:00 AM          107
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:30:00 AM          111
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:45:00 AM          149        479
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:00:00 AM           98
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:15:00 AM          103
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:30:00 AM           92
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:45:00 AM           86        379
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:00:00 PM           96
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:15:00 PM          119
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:30:00 PM          108
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:45:00 PM          120        443
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:00:00 PM          181
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:15:00 PM          195
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:30:00 PM          214
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:45:00 PM          180        770
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:00:00 PM          210
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:15:00 PM          236
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:30:00 PM          211
WBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:45:00 PM          196        853      3542




                                                                                                    Page 104
                                                    Turning Movement Counts 
                                                    SR 714 at SW 42nd Avenue

                                                                                    Hourly        Daily 
Detector Title   Date                                   Time           Volume       Total         Total 
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:00:00 AM          0
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:15:00 AM          0
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:30:00 AM          2
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:45:00 AM          2             4
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:00:00 AM          0
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:15:00 AM          1
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:30:00 AM          4
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:45:00 AM          6         11
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:00:00 AM          4
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:15:00 AM          2
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:30:00 AM          2
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:45:00 AM          2         10
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:00:00 PM          3
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:15:00 PM          1
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:30:00 PM          1
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:45:00 PM          0             5
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:00:00 PM          2
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:15:00 PM          7
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:30:00 PM          0
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:45:00 PM          3         12
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:00:00 PM          0
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:15:00 PM          2
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:30:00 PM          1
WBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:45:00 PM          3             6        48
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:00:00 AM          0
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:15:00 AM          3
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:30:00 AM          0
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:45:00 AM          3             6
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:00:00 AM          5
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:15:00 AM          2
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:30:00 AM          2
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:45:00 AM          3         12
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:00:00 AM          2
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:15:00 AM          1
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:30:00 AM          2
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:45:00 AM          0             5
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:00:00 PM          0
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:15:00 PM          2
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:30:00 PM          2
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:45:00 PM          3             7
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:00:00 PM          1
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:15:00 PM          3
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:30:00 PM          2
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:45:00 PM          2             8
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:00:00 PM          0
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:15:00 PM          1
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:30:00 PM          1
WBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:45:00 PM          4             6        44
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:00:00 AM          0
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:15:00 AM          0
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:30:00 AM          1
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:45:00 AM          0             1
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:00:00 AM          3
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:15:00 AM          0
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:30:00 AM          0
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:45:00 AM          2             5
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:00:00 AM          1
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:15:00 AM          0
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:30:00 AM          1
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:45:00 AM          1             3
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:00:00 PM          3
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:15:00 PM          1
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:30:00 PM          0
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:45:00 PM          1             5
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:00:00 PM          0
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:15:00 PM          2
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:30:00 PM          0
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:45:00 PM          2             4
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:00:00 PM          0
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:15:00 PM          6
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:30:00 PM          1
WBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:45:00 PM          1             8        26




                                                                                                      Page 105
                                                    Turning Movement Counts 
                                                    SR 714 at SW 42nd Avenue

                                                                                     Hourly     Daily 
Detector Title   Date                                   Time           Volume        Total      Total 
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:00:00 AM          52
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:15:00 AM          42
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:30:00 AM          39
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:45:00 AM          50       183
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:00:00 AM          76
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:15:00 AM          57
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:30:00 AM          54
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:45:00 AM          41       228
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:00:00 AM          29
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:15:00 AM          39
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:30:00 AM          29
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:45:00 AM          34       131
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:00:00 PM          39
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:15:00 PM          30
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:30:00 PM          44
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:45:00 PM          46       159
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:00:00 PM          42
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:15:00 PM          24
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:30:00 PM          24
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:45:00 PM          28       118
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:00:00 PM          22
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:15:00 PM          12
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:30:00 PM          13
WBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:45:00 PM          12         59       878
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:00:00 AM          44
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:15:00 AM          39
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:30:00 AM          42
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:45:00 AM          51       176
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:00:00 AM          94
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:15:00 AM          58
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:30:00 AM          56
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:45:00 AM          50       258
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:00:00 AM          38
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:15:00 AM          29
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:30:00 AM          22
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:45:00 AM          33       122
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:00:00 PM          30
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:15:00 PM          28
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:30:00 PM          50
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:45:00 PM          48       156
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:00:00 PM          35
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:15:00 PM          25
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:30:00 PM          39
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:45:00 PM          41       140
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:00:00 PM          26
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:15:00 PM          31
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:30:00 PM          48
WBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:45:00 PM          42       147        999
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:00:00 AM          46
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:15:00 AM          30
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:30:00 AM          37
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:45:00 AM          53       166
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:00:00 AM          71
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:15:00 AM          55
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:30:00 AM          44
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:45:00 AM          46       216
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:00:00 AM          33
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:15:00 AM          25
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:30:00 AM          27
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:45:00 AM          38       123
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:00:00 PM          46
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:15:00 PM          41
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:30:00 PM          40
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:45:00 PM          44       171
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:00:00 PM          36
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:15:00 PM          27
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:30:00 PM          28
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:45:00 PM          25       116
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:00:00 PM          16
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:15:00 PM          24
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:30:00 PM          20
WBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:45:00 PM          13         73       865




                                                                                                    Page 106
                                                    Turning Movement Counts 
                                                    SR 714 at SW 42nd Avenue

Detector Title   Date                                   Time           Volume        Total         Total 
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:00:00 AM           2
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:15:00 AM          15
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:30:00 AM          10
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:45:00 AM          19            46
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:00:00 AM          12
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:15:00 AM          18
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:30:00 AM          17
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:45:00 AM          33            80
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:00:00 AM          26
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:15:00 AM          19
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:30:00 AM          27
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:45:00 AM          21            93
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:00:00 PM          32
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:15:00 PM          39
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:30:00 PM          39
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:45:00 PM          39        149
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:00:00 PM          23
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:15:00 PM          50
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:30:00 PM          29
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:45:00 PM          37        139
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:00:00 PM          54
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:15:00 PM          81
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:30:00 PM          30
SBLT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:45:00 PM          40        205          712
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:00:00 AM           3
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:15:00 AM          13
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:30:00 AM          10
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:45:00 AM          23            49
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:00:00 AM          23
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:15:00 AM          13
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:30:00 AM          14
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:45:00 AM          16            66
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:00:00 AM          25
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:15:00 AM          24
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:30:00 AM          16
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:45:00 AM          21            86
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:00:00 PM          25
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:15:00 PM          53
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:30:00 PM          33
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:45:00 PM          38        149
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:00:00 PM          32
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:15:00 PM          51
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:30:00 PM          36
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:45:00 PM          65        184
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:00:00 PM          31
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:15:00 PM          73
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:30:00 PM          38
SBLT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:45:00 PM          44        186          720
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:00:00 AM           4
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:15:00 AM           8
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:30:00 AM           9
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:45:00 AM          20            41
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:00:00 AM          19
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:15:00 AM          18
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:30:00 AM          12
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:45:00 AM          16            65
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:00:00 AM          20
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:15:00 AM          14
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:30:00 AM          18
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:45:00 AM          22            74
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:00:00 PM          23
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:15:00 PM          53
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:30:00 PM          34
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:45:00 PM          29        139
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:00:00 PM          40
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:15:00 PM          45
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:30:00 PM          32
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:45:00 PM          64        181
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:00:00 PM          35
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:15:00 PM          89
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:30:00 PM          39
SBLT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:45:00 PM          53        216          716




                                                                                                             Page 107
                                                    Turning Movement Counts 
                                                    SR 714 at SW 42nd Avenue

Detector Title   Date                                   Time           Volume        Total         Total 
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:00:00 AM           1
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:15:00 AM           8
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:30:00 AM           3
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:45:00 AM           1            13
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:00:00 AM           9
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:15:00 AM           5
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:30:00 AM           8
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:45:00 AM          34            56
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:00:00 AM          10
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:15:00 AM           5
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:30:00 AM           6
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:45:00 AM           4            25
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:00:00 PM          10
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:15:00 PM          10
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:30:00 PM           2
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:45:00 PM           6            28
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:00:00 PM           5
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:15:00 PM          20
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:30:00 PM          15
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:45:00 PM          25            65
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:00:00 PM           8
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:15:00 PM          41
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:30:00 PM          11
SBRT                      Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:45:00 PM          10            70       257
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:00:00 AM           1
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:15:00 AM           9
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:30:00 AM           1
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:45:00 AM           3            14
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:00:00 AM           3
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:15:00 AM          18
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:30:00 AM          21
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:45:00 AM          23            65
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:00:00 AM          16
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:15:00 AM           6
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:30:00 AM           5
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:45:00 AM           7            34
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:00:00 PM           7
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:15:00 PM          10
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:30:00 PM           4
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:45:00 PM           6            27
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:00:00 PM           4
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:15:00 PM          27
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:30:00 PM          16
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:45:00 PM          25            72
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:00:00 PM          11
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:15:00 PM          47
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:30:00 PM          19
SBRT                    Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:45:00 PM          25        102          314
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:00:00 AM           1
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:15:00 AM           8
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:30:00 AM           2
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:45:00 AM           4            15
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:00:00 AM           4
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:15:00 AM           4
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:30:00 AM           4
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:45:00 AM           2            14
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:00:00 AM           6
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:15:00 AM           6
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:30:00 AM           2
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:45:00 AM           5            19
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:00:00 PM          11
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:15:00 PM          11
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:30:00 PM           9
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:45:00 PM          11            42
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:00:00 PM          13
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:15:00 PM          17
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:30:00 PM          16
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:45:00 PM          12            58
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:00:00 PM          13
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:15:00 PM          44
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:30:00 PM          19
SBRT                     Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:45:00 PM          14            90       238




                                                                                                             Page 108
                                                    Turning Movement Counts 
                                                    SR 714 at SW 42nd Avenue

                                                                                  Hourly  Daily 
Detector Title   Date                                   Time           Volume     Total     Total 
NBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:00:00 AM          4 
NBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:15:00 AM          4
NBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:30:00 AM          3
NBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       7:45:00 AM          6        17
NBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:00:00 AM          2 
NBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:15:00 AM          8
NBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:30:00 AM          0
NBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       8:45:00 AM          3        13
NBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:00:00 AM          1 
NBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:15:00 AM          6
NBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:30:00 AM          3
NBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011      11:45:00 AM          6        16
NBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:00:00 PM          2 
NBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:15:00 PM          3
NBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:30:00 PM          3
NBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011      12:45:00 PM          3        11
NBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:00:00 PM          1 
NBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:15:00 PM          2
NBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:30:00 PM          2
NBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       4:45:00 PM          4         9
NBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:00:00 PM          1 
NBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:15:00 PM          3
NBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:30:00 PM          1
NBT                       Tuesday, September 27, 2011       5:45:00 PM          6        11        77
NBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:00:00 AM          3 
NBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:15:00 AM          8
NBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:30:00 AM          2
NBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       7:45:00 AM          2        15
NBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:00:00 AM          4 
NBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:15:00 AM          6
NBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:30:00 AM          4
NBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       8:45:00 AM          4        18
NBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:00:00 AM          2 
NBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:15:00 AM          2
NBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:30:00 AM          3
NBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011      11:45:00 AM          0         7
NBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:00:00 PM          4 
NBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:15:00 PM          3
NBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:30:00 PM          3
NBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011      12:45:00 PM          0        10
NBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:00:00 PM          4 
NBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:15:00 PM          1
NBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:30:00 PM          1
NBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       4:45:00 PM          5        11
NBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:00:00 PM          5 
NBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:15:00 PM          0
NBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:30:00 PM          2
NBT                     Wednesday, September 28, 2011       5:45:00 PM          0         7        68
NBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:00:00 AM          3 
NBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:15:00 AM          1
NBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:30:00 AM          4
NBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       7:45:00 AM          2        10
NBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:00:00 AM          3 
NBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:15:00 AM          4
NBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:30:00 AM          2
NBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       8:45:00 AM          8        17
NBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:00:00 AM          4 
NBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:15:00 AM          3
NBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:30:00 AM          5
NBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011      11:45:00 AM          2        14
NBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:00:00 PM          1 
NBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:15:00 PM          3
NBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:30:00 PM          2
NBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011      12:45:00 PM          6        12
NBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:00:00 PM          1 
NBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:15:00 PM          2
NBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:30:00 PM          0
NBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       4:45:00 PM          3         6
NBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:00:00 PM          2 
NBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:15:00 PM          3
NBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:30:00 PM          3
NBT                      Thursday, September 22, 2011       5:45:00 PM          1         9        68




                                                                                                        Page 109
                                                                        AECOM
                                                              13450 W. Sunrise Blvd, Suite 200
                                                                    Sunrise, FL 33323
                                                                                                   File Name              : DRIVEWAY-714_10-28_AM
                                                                                                   Site Code              : 00000000
                                                                                                   Start Date             : 10/28/2011
                                                                                                   Page No                :1


                                                                Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1
                   DRIVEWAY                                 714                           DRIVEWAY                                 714
                       Southbound                             Westbound                       Northbound                              Eastbound
Start Time    Right Thru Left Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
 07:00 AM        1     0    1     0         2         1       0    0    0        1      0     0    0     0          0        0       0     0    0          0           3
 07:15 AM        2     0    2     0         4        11       0    0    0       11      0     0    0     0          0        0       0     4    0          4          19
 07:30 AM        0     0    0     0         0         6       0    0    0        6      0     0    0     0          0        0       0     1    0          1           7
 07:45 AM        3     0    1     0         4        18       0    0    0       18      0     0    0     0          0        0       0     3    0          3          25
     Total       6     0    4     0        10        36       0    0    0       36      0     0    0     0          0        0       0     8    0          8          54

 08:00 AM       0     0     2    0          2        13      0     0     0     13      0    0     0     0           0        0      0     4    0          4           19
 08:15 AM       4     0     1    0          5         6      0     0     0      6      0    0     0     0           0        0      0     3    0          3           14
 08:30 AM       0     0     5    0          5         3      0     0     0      3      0    0     0     0           0        0      0     2    0          2           10
 08:45 AM       0     0     4    0          4        11      0     0     0     11      0    0     0     0           0        0      0     7    0          7           22
     Total      4     0    12    0         16        33      0     0     0     33      0    0     0     0           0        0      0    16    0         16           65

Grand Total     10    0   16     0         26       69       0     0     0     69      0    0     0     0           0        0      0   24     0         24         119
 Apprch %     38.5    0 61.5     0                 100       0     0     0             0    0     0     0                    0      0 100      0
   Total %     8.4    0 13.4     0      21.8        58       0     0     0     58      0    0     0     0           0        0      0 20.2     0      20.2
 Unshifted      10    0   16     0        26        69       0     0     0     69      0    0     0     0           0        0      0   24     0        24          119
% Unshifted    100    0 100      0       100       100       0     0     0    100      0    0     0     0           0        0      0 100      0       100          100
   Bank 1        0    0    0     0         0         0       0     0     0      0      0    0     0     0           0        0      0    0     0         0            0
 % Bank 1        0    0    0     0         0         0       0     0     0      0      0    0     0     0           0        0      0    0     0         0            0




                                                                                                                                              Page 110
                                                                                  AECOM
                                                                     13450 W. Sunrise Blvd, Suite 200
                                                                           Sunrise, FL 33323
                                                                                                                                      File Name                 : DRIVEWAY-714_10-28_AM
                                                                                                                                      Site Code                 : 00000000
                                                                                                                                      Start Date                : 10/28/2011
                                                                                                                                      Page No                   :2

                   DRIVEWAY                           714                                                             DRIVEWAY                                         714
                         Southbound                     Westbound                                                         Northbound                                      Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                                App. Total       Right Thru Left Peds              App. Total   Right Thru Left Peds         App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
  07:15 AM       2       0      2    0        4    11   0    0    0                                  11                 0       0     0      0             0      0      0        4     0            4         19
  07:30 AM       0       0      0    0        0     6   0    0    0                                   6                 0       0     0      0             0      0      0        1     0          1            7
  07:45 AM       3       0      1    0        4    18   0    0    0                                   18                0       0     0      0             0      0      0        3     0          3            25
  08:00 AM       0       0      2    0        2    13   0    0    0                                  13                 0       0     0      0             0      0      0        4     0          4           19
 Total Volume    5       0      5    0       10    48   0    0    0                                  48                 0       0     0      0             0      0      0       12     0         12           70
% App. Total     50      0     50      0                100          0      0       0                               0          0       0      0                    0      0    100       0
       PHF     .417   .000   .625   .000   .625        .667       .000   .000    .000              .667          .000       .000    .000   .000          .000   .000   .000   .750    .000      .750         .700
   Unshifted      5      0      5      0     10          48          0      0       0                48             0          0       0      0             0      0      0     12       0        12           70
% Unshifted
    Bank 1       0      0      0      0         0             0     0      0        0                  0                0       0     0      0             0      0      0        0     0           0             0
  % Bank 1       0      0      0      0         0             0     0      0        0                  0                0       0     0      0             0      0      0        0     0           0             0

                                                                                   DRIVEWAY
                                                                                  Out     In                            Total
                                                                                    60      10                             70
                                                                                      0      0                              0
                                                                                    60      10                             70


                                                                                    5     0                         5      0
                                                                                    0     0                         0      0
                                                                                    5     0                         5      0
                                                                                Right Thru                   Left       Peds




                                                                                Peak Hour Data
                                   0
                                  17

                                  17



                                                0
                                             12

                                             12




                                                                                                                                                  Right Thru
                               Total




                                           Left




                                                                                                                                                                         Out
                                                                                                                                                     48

                                                                                                                                                     48
                                                                                                                                                      0




                                                                                                                                                                           714
                                                                                                    North
                                                                                                                                                                   5
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                   5
                                                          0
                                                          0
                                                          0
                                           Peds Right Thru
                                  0
                                 12

                                 12




                                                                                Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM
                               In




                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                            0




                                                                                                                                                                   In
                                                                                                                                                                     48

                                                                                                                                                                     48
                                                    0
                                                    0
                                                    0




                                                                                Unshifted
                                                                                                                                                  Left




                                                                                                                                                                      0




                                                                                Bank 1
                              714




                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                 5
                                 0
                                 5
                             Out




                                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                              0
                                              0
                                              0




                                                                                                                                                  Peds




                                                                                                                                                                      53

                                                                                                                                                                      53
                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                     0




                                                                                 Left           Thru Right Peds
                                                                                        0           0    0    0
                                                                                        0           0    0    0
                                                                                        0           0    0    0


                                                                                            0                0              0
                                                                                            0                0              0
                                                                                            0                0              0
                                                                                  Out     In                            Total
                                                                                   DRIVEWAY




                                                                                                                                                                                       Page 111
                                                                       AECOM
                                                             13450 W. Sunrise Blvd, Suite 200
                                                                   Sunrise, FL 33323
                                                                                                  File Name              : DRIVEWAY-714_10-27_PM
                                                                                                  Site Code              : 00000000
                                                                                                  Start Date             : 10/27/2011
                                                                                                  Page No                :1


                                                               Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1
                  DRIVEWAY                                 714                           DRIVEWAY                                 714
                      Southbound                             Westbound                       Northbound                              Eastbound
Start Time   Right Thru Left Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
 04:30 PM       4     0    5     0         9         5       0    0    0        5      0     0    0     0          0        0       0     1    0          1          15
 04:45 PM       5     0    7     0        12         9       0    0    0        9      0     0    0     0          0        0       0     2    0          2          23
     Total      9     0   12     0        21        14       0    0    0       14      0     0    0     0          0        0       0     3    0          3          38

 05:00 PM      3     0    19    0         22        10      0     0     0     10      0    0     0     0           0        0      0     4    0          4           36
 05:15 PM      5     0    16    0         21         6      0     0     0      6      0    0     0     0           0        0      0     1    0          1           28
 05:30 PM      3     0     8    0         11         3      0     0     0      3      0    0     0     0           0        0      0     2    0          2           16
 05:45 PM      1     0     8    0          9         5      0     0     0      5      0    0     0     0           0        0      0     3    0          3           17
     Total    12     0    51    0         63        24      0     0     0     24      0    0     0     0           0        0      0    10    0         10           97

 06:00 PM     1      0    6     0          7         4      0     0     0      4      0    0     0     0           0        0      0     2    0          2          13
 06:15 PM     1      0    6     0          7         1      0     0     0      1      0    0     0     0           0        0      0     0    0          0           8
Grand Total  23      0   75     0         98        43      0     0     0     43      0    0     0     0           0        0      0    15    0         15         156
Apprch % 23.5        0 76.5     0                  100      0     0     0             0    0     0     0                    0      0   100    0
  Total % 14.7       0 48.1     0      62.8       27.6      0     0     0    27.6     0    0     0     0           0        0      0   9.6    0       9.6
 Unshifted   23      0   75     0        98         43      0     0     0      43     0    0     0     0           0        0      0    15    0        15          156
% Unshifted 100      0 100      0       100        100      0     0     0     100     0    0     0     0           0        0      0   100    0       100          100
   Bank 1     0      0    0     0         0          0      0     0     0       0     0    0     0     0           0        0      0     0    0         0            0
% Bank 1      0      0    0     0         0          0      0     0     0       0     0    0     0     0           0        0      0     0    0         0            0




                                                                                                                                             Page 112
                                                                                  AECOM
                                                                     13450 W. Sunrise Blvd, Suite 200
                                                                           Sunrise, FL 33323
                                                                                                                                 File Name                 : DRIVEWAY-714_10-27_PM
                                                                                                                                 Site Code                 : 00000000
                                                                                                                                 Start Date                : 10/27/2011
                                                                                                                                 Page No                   :3

                   DRIVEWAY                           714                                                             DRIVEWAY                                    714
                         Southbound                     Westbound                                                         Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                                App. Total       Right Thru Left Peds         App. Total   Right Thru Left Peds        App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:30 PM to 06:00 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
  04:45 PM       5       0      7    0       12     9   0    0    0                                    9           0       0     0      0             0      0      0      2      0           2          23
  05:00 PM       3       0    19     0       22    10   0    0    0                                   10           0       0     0      0             0      0      0      4      0            4          36
  05:15 PM       5       0    16     0       21     6   0    0    0                                   6            0       0     0      0             0      0      0      1      0           1         28
  05:30 PM       3       0      8    0       11     3   0    0    0                                   3            0       0     0      0             0      0      0      2      0           2         16
 Total Volume  16        0    50     0       66    28   0    0    0                                  28            0       0     0      0             0      0      0      9      0           9        103
% App. Total   24.2      0   75.8      0                100          0      0       0                               0      0      0      0                    0      0    100      0
       PHF     .800   .000   .658   .000   .750        .700       .000   .000    .000              .700          .000   .000   .000   .000          .000   .000   .000   .563   .000      .563         .715
   Unshifted     16      0     50      0     66          28          0      0       0                28             0      0      0      0             0      0      0      9      0         9          103
% Unshifted
    Bank 1       0      0      0      0         0             0     0      0        0                  0           0       0     0      0             0      0      0      0      0           0             0
  % Bank 1       0      0      0      0         0             0     0      0        0                  0           0       0     0      0             0      0      0      0      0           0             0

                                                                                   DRIVEWAY
                                                                                  Out     In                       Total
                                                                                    37      66                       103
                                                                                      0      0                         0
                                                                                    37      66                       103


                                                                                   16     0                    50    0
                                                                                    0     0                      0   0
                                                                                   16     0                    50    0
                                                                                Right Thru                   Left Peds




                                                                                Peak Hour Data
                                   0
                                  25

                                  25


                                           9
                                           0
                                           9




                                                                                                                                             Right Thru
                               Total




                                                      Left




                                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                                                28

                                                                                                                                                28
                                                                                                                                                 0



                                                                                                                                                                50

                                                                                                                                                                50

                                                                                                                                                                 714
                                                                                                    North                                                         0
                                                          0
                                                          0
                                                          0
                                           Peds Right Thru
                                    9
                                    0
                                    9




                                                                                Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM
                               In




                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                                                                                              In
                                                                                                                                                                28

                                                                                                                                                                28
                                                    0
                                                    0
                                                    0




                                                                                Unshifted
                                                                                                                                             Left




                                                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                Bank 1
                              714




                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                0
                                 0
                               16

                               16
                             Out




                                                                                                                                                              Total
                                              0
                                              0
                                              0




                                                                                                                                             Peds




                                                                                                                                                                 78

                                                                                                                                                                 78
                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                0




                                                                                 Left           Thru Right Peds
                                                                                        0           0    0    0
                                                                                        0           0    0    0
                                                                                        0           0    0    0


                                                                                            0                0         0
                                                                                            0                0         0
                                                                                            0                0         0
                                                                                  Out     In                       Total
                                                                                   DRIVEWAY




                                                                                                                                                                                 Page 113
                                                                        AECOM
                                                              13450 W. Sunrise Blvd, Suite 200
                                                                    Sunrise, FL 33323
                                                                                            File Name        : DEGLER-714 AM TMC_10-13-11
                                                                                            Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                            Start Date       : 10/13/2011
                                                                                            Page No          :1


                                                                     Groups Printed- Unshifted
                   DEGGELLER                                714                           DEGGELLER                                714
                       Southbound                             Westbound                       Northbound                              Eastbound
Start Time    Right Thru Left Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
 07:00 AM        3     0    0     0         3         1       0  11      0      12      8     0    3     0        11        14    155     10    0      179         205
 07:15 AM        7     0    1     0         8         2    231     4     0    237       6     0    5     0        11         4    190      2    0      196         452
 07:30 AM        6     0    3     0         9        10    243     3     0    256      10     0    1     0        11         2    248     12    0      262         538
 07:45 AM       13     0    6     0        19        13    197   18      0    228      11     0    1     0        12         1    260     14    0      275         534
     Total      29     0   10     0        39        26    671   36      0    733      35     0   10     0        45        21    853     38    0      912        1729

 08:00 AM      10     0     7    0         17        11    191    12     0    214      4     0    0     0          4         2    204    12    0       218         453
 08:15 AM       6     0     9    0         15         8    148     9     0    165      7     0    0     0          7         1    203     2    0       206         393
 08:30 AM       8     0    11    0         19        11    151    11     0    173      5     2    4     0         11         4    172     8    0       184         387
 08:45 AM       5     0     4    0          9        16    146    10     0    172      7     1    0     0          8         1    159     5    0       165         354
     Total     29     0    31    0         60        46    636    42     0    724     23     3    4     0         30         8    738    27    0       773        1587

Grand Total     58    0   41     0         99        72 1307       78    0   1457      58     3   14    0         75        29 1591      65    0     1685         3316
 Apprch %     58.6    0 41.4     0                  4.9 89.7      5.4    0           77.3     4 18.7    0                  1.7 94.4     3.9    0
   Total %     1.7    0  1.2     0            3     2.2 39.4      2.4    0    43.9    1.7   0.1  0.4    0        2.3       0.9   48       2    0      50.8




                                                                                                                                              Page 114
                                                                                   AECOM
                                                                      13450 W. Sunrise Blvd, Suite 200
                                                                            Sunrise, FL 33323
                                                                                                                      File Name         : DEGLER-714 AM TMC_10-13-11
                                                                                                                      Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                                                      Start Date        : 10/13/2011
                                                                                                                      Page No           :2

                   DEGGELLER                          714                                                       DEGGELLER                                   714
                         Southbound                     Westbound                                                   Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                             App. Total    Right Thru Left Peds         App. Total   Right Thru Left Peds               App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
  07:15 AM       7       0      1    0        8     2 231    4    0                             237           6       0     5      0         11             4     190       2      0       196          452
  07:30 AM       6       0      3    0        9    10 243    3    0                             256          10       0     1      0         11             2     248      12      0       262           538
  07:45 AM     13        0      6    0       19    13 197   18    0                             228          11       0     1      0          12            1     260      14      0       275         534
  08:00 AM     10        0      7    0       17    11 191  12     0                             214           4       0     0      0          4             2     204      12      0       218         453
 Total Volume  36        0    17     0       53    36 862  37     0                             935          31       0     7      0         38             9     902      40      0       951        1977
% App. Total   67.9      0   32.1      0                     3.9   92.2      4       0                     81.6      0    18.4      0                   0.9       94.8     4.2      0
       PHF     .692   .000   .607   .000             .697   .692   .887   .514    .000          .913       .705   .000    .350   .000      .792        .563       .867    .714   .000      .865         .919

                                                                                   DEGGELLER
                                                                                   Out    In                  Total
                                                                                     76     53                  129


                                                                                    36     0                17    0
                                                                                 Right Thru               Left Peds




                                                                                 Peak Hour Data
                               1856


                                         40




                                                                                                                                                     Right Thru
                               Total




                                       Left




                                                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                                                                                                                        36


                                                                                                                                                                   950

                                                                                                                                                                     714
                                                                                                 North
                                                   902
                                       Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                            862
                                951
                               In




                                                                                 Peak Hour Begins at 07:15 AM



                                                                                                                                                                  In
                                                                                                                                                                   935
                                                9




                                                                                                                                                     Left Peds


                                                                                 Unshifted
                                                                                                                                                       37
                               714

                              905
                             Out




                                                                                                                                                                  Total
                                                                                                                                                                  1885
                                          0




                                                                                                                                                             0




                                                                                  Left       Thru Right Peds
                                                                                         7       0   31    0


                                                                                     46     38                   84
                                                                                   Out    In                  Total
                                                                                   DEGGELLER




                                                                                                                                                                                  Page 115
                                                                         AECOM
                                                               13450 W. Sunrise Blvd, Suite 200
                                                                     Sunrise, FL 33323
                                                                                             File Name        : DEGLER-714 PM TMC_10-12-11
                                                                                             Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                             Start Date       : 10/12/2011
                                                                                             Page No          :1


                                                                 Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1
                     DEGLER                                  714                            DEGLER                                  714
                        Southbound                             Westbound                       Northbound                              Eastbound
Start Time Right     Thru Left Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
 04:00 PM       9       0    9     0       18          9    179     8    0    196       13     0    0     0        13         0    156     14    0      170         397
 04:15 PM      12       0   14     0       26         11    205     6    0    222       14     0    0     0        14         0    188     10    0      198         460
 04:30 PM      16       0   13     0       29         13    205   11     0    229        9     0    1     0        10         2    188      8    0      198         466
 04:45 PM      17       0   13     0       30         13    227     4    0    244       11     0    0     0        11         0    191     14    0      205         490
     Total     54       0   49     0      103         46    816   29     0    891       47     0    1     0        48         2    723     46    0      771        1813

 05:00 PM      16       0    9    0         25        13    232    15     0    260     7     0     0     0          7         1    231     7    0       239         531
 05:15 PM      13       0    8    0         21         6    277    14     0    297    12     0     3     0         15         0    202     6    0       208         541
 05:30 PM      10       0    6    0         16        15    194    12     0    221     5     1     0     0          6         0    210     3    0       213         456
 05:45 PM      11       2    5    0         18         8    204    18     0    230     8     0     1     0          9         2    177     3    0       182         439
     Total     50       2   28    0         80        42    907    59     0   1008    32     1     4     0         37         3    820    19    0       842        1967

Grand Total    104      2   77    0       183        88 1723       88     0   1899     79     1     5    0         85        5 1543       65    0     1613         3780
 Apprch %     56.8    1.1 42.1    0                 4.6 90.7      4.6     0          92.9   1.2   5.9    0                 0.3 95.7        4    0
   Total %     2.8    0.1    2    0       4.8       2.3 45.6      2.3     0   50.2    2.1     0   0.1    0       2.2       0.1 40.8      1.7    0     42.7
 Unshifted     104      2   77    0       183        88 1723       88     0   1899     79     1     5    0        85         5 1543       65    0     1613         3780
% Unshifted    100    100 100     0       100       100 100       100     0    100    100   100   100    0       100       100 100       100    0      100          100
   Bank 1        0      0    0    0         0         0    0        0     0      0      0     0     0    0         0         0    0        0    0        0            0
 % Bank 1        0      0    0    0         0         0    0        0     0      0      0     0     0    0         0         0    0        0    0        0            0




                                                                                                                                               Page 116
                                                                                  AECOM
                                                                     13450 W. Sunrise Blvd, Suite 200
                                                                           Sunrise, FL 33323
                                                                                                                     File Name         : DEGLER-714 PM TMC_10-12-11
                                                                                                                     Site Code         : 00000000
                                                                                                                     Start Date        : 10/12/2011
                                                                                                                     Page No           :2

                    DEGLER                            714                                                       DEGLER                                     714
                         Southbound                     Westbound                                                  Northbound                                 Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                            App. Total    Right Thru Left Peds         App. Total   Right Thru Left Peds         App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
  04:30 PM     16        0    13     0       29    13 205  11     0                            229           9       0     1      0         10         2    188      8      0       198          466
  04:45 PM     17        0    13     0       30    13 227    4    0                            244          11       0     0      0         11         0    191     14      0       205          490
  05:00 PM     16        0      9    0       25    13 232   15    0                            260           7       0     0      0          7         1    231      7      0       239          531
  05:15 PM     13        0      8    0       21     6 277  14     0                            297          12       0     3      0          15        0    202      6      0       208           541
 Total Volume  62        0    43     0      105    45 941  44     0                          1030           39       0     4      0         43         3    812     35      0       850        2028
% App. Total     59      0     41      0                4.4       91.4    4.3       0                     90.7      0     9.3      0                  0.4   95.5    4.1      0
       PHF     .912   .000   .827   .000   .875        .865       .849   .733    .000         .867        .813   .000    .333   .000      .717       .375   .879   .625   .000      .889        .937
   Unshifted     62      0     43      0    105          45        941     44       0         1030          39      0       4      0        43          3    812     35      0       850        2028
% Unshifted
    Bank 1       0      0      0      0         0             0     0      0        0              0         0       0     0      0           0        0      0      0      0           0             0
  % Bank 1       0      0      0      0         0             0     0      0        0              0         0       0     0      0           0        0      0      0      0           0             0

                                                                                   DEGLER
                                                                                  Out    In                  Total
                                                                                    80    105                  185
                                                                                      0     0                    0
                                                                                    80    105                  185


                                                                                   62     0                43    0
                                                                                    0     0                  0   0
                                                                                   62     0                43    0
                                                                                Right Thru               Left Peds




                                                                                Peak Hour Data
                                   0




                                                0
                               1857

                               1857


                                             35

                                             35




                                                                                                                                       Right Thru
                               Total




                                           Left




                                                                                                                                                        Out
                                                                                                                                          45

                                                                                                                                          45


                                                                                                                                                         894

                                                                                                                                                         894
                                                                                                                                           0




                                                                                                                                                           714
                                                                                                North                                                       0
                                                          0
                                                       812

                                                       812
                                           Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                              941

                                                                                                                                              941
                                  0
                               850

                               850




                                                                                Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                               In




                                                                                                                                                 0



                                                                                                                                                        1030

                                                                                                                                                        1030
                                                                                                                                                         In
                                                    3
                                                    0
                                                    3




                                                                                Unshifted
                                                                                                                                       Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                            0




                                                                                Bank 1
                                                                                                                                         44

                                                                                                                                         44
                               714




                                                                                                                                           0
                                 0
                             1007

                             1007
                             Out




                                                                                                                                                        Total
                                              0
                                              0
                                              0




                                                                                                                                                        1924

                                                                                                                                                        1924
                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                               0




                                                                                 Left       Thru Right Peds
                                                                                        4       0   39    0
                                                                                        0       0    0    0
                                                                                        4       0   39    0


                                                                                    47     43                   90
                                                                                      0     0                    0
                                                                                    47     43                   90
                                                                                  Out    In                  Total
                                                                                   DEGLER




                                                                                                                                                                           Page 117
Page 118
Page 119
Page 120
Page 121
Page 122
Page 123
Page 124
Page 125
Page 126
Page 127
Page 128
Page 129
Page 130
Page 131
Page 132
Page 133
Page 134
Page 135
Page 136
Page 137
Page 138
Page 139
Page 140
Page 141
Page 142
Page 143
Page 144
Page 145
Page 146
Page 147
Page 148
Page 149
Page 150
Page 151
Page 152
Page 153
                                                                                         County of Martin
                                                                        145 : Monthly Hourly Volume for March 2011

Location ID:                145                                                                   Seasonal Factor Group:            145
County:                     Martin                                                                Daily Factor Group:
Functional Class:           Minor Arterial                                                        Axle Factor Group:
Location:                   SR714 (Martin Hwy)                                                    Growth Factor Group:

       0:00   1:00   2:00     3:00   4:00   5:00   6:00   7:00   8:00     9:00   10:00    11:00     12:00   13:00   14:00   15:00     16:00      17:00   18:00   19:00   20:00   21:00   22:00   23:00 TOTAL
  1      86     31    39       29     72    269    782    1761   1336    1055     989      966       1045    1169    1249   1351          1466   1459     987     687     492     360     209     128    18017
  2      72     40    24       32     67    251    801    1671   1344    1014     940     1086       1218    1067    1121   1357          1524   1571    1096     718     561     387     234     150    18346
  3      66     39    36       36     76    281    768    1753   1337    1043     992     1059       1103    1180    1240   1369          1620   1626    1112     744     488     337     244     175    18724
  4      87     40    47       34     84    245    717    1714   1267    1046    1067     1084       1108    1178    1252   1365          1587   1479    1167     719     519     416     349     263    18834
  5     129     84    66       48     73    149    325    630    929     1032    1063     1145       1091    1038     977    993          937     888     751     602     429     379     320     199    14277
  6     121     55    60       45     52    106    176    334    550      667     872      877       1003     936     831    832          859     758     683     520     361     297     196     122    11313
  7      55     38    33       27     75    255    806    1648   1386    1039     941     1007       1097    1118    1191   1391          1594   1496    1036     678     395     311     200     120    17937
  8      79     29    33       20     76    266    814    1763   1363    1060     936      975       1063    1129    1252   1373          1563   1640    1036     694     512     367     211     150    18404
  9      83     37    38       31     70    272    805    1730   1409    1021     950     1078       1057    1096    1241   1424          1584   1627    1106     740     556     433     238     172    18798
 10      95     33    36       26     78    271    799    1743   1305    1018     975     1017       1035    1053    1173   1291          1481   1518    1033     639     513     406     268     178    17984
 11      92     50    39       34     69    258    748    1672   1365    1063    1033     1078       1166    1111    1331   1449          1620   1538    1089     790     536     435     388     206    19160
 12     173     75    64       38     74    151    312    611    862      922     969     1089       1075    1040    1001    999          925     927     805     587     477     425     332     210    14143
 13     144     78    77       52     97    139    270    499    621      803     859     1078        910     840     901    852          780     689     636     490     313     241     123      78    11570
 14      48     34    28       68    269    654    1602   1320   989      932     980     1048       1052    1221    1286   1517          1585   1025     695     532     363     233     155      89    17725
 15      38     33    33       73    263    731    1654   1423   1034     956     963     1061       1150    1245    1389   1557          1619   1050     668     585     406     269     153      83    18436
 16      50     37    34       71    258    733    1700   1381   1065     973    1024     1097       1128    1253    1311   1597          1625   1074     833     670     487     291     155      72    18919
 17
 18     106     60    51       39     80    247    731    1649   1331    1110    1014     1181       1238    1215    1255   1483          1529   1575    1100     813     624     516     358     239    19544
 19     156     81    68       56     59    177    306    534    816      930    1065     1098       1112    1076    1017    947          944     892     820     679     563     449     386     243    14474
 20     172     71    62       40     61    106    180    315    488      699     870      907       1027     888     834    827          772     824     694     592     488     307     194     120    11538
 21      55     33    22       21     63    236    726    1714   1297    1042     969     1060       1100    1133    1177   1312          1603   1478    1003     651     446     362     213     128    17844
 22      67     40    23       32     67    269    774    1661   1401    1064     893     1052       1115    1152    1256   1396          1552   1603    1052     733     546     432     231     135    18546
 23      89     42    31       22     66    249    780    1696   1350    1026    1045     1009       1139    1120    1284   1359          1613   1634    1059     772     617     420     280     179    18881
 24      86     30    35       23     87    246    773    1685   1276    1044     996     1013       1110    1257    1296   1357          1568   1634    1055     784     574     518     304     176    18927
 25      99     58    58       37     71    261    655    1212   1263    1087    1037     1128       1156    1150    1240   1335          1464   1449     983     726     550     412     326     188    17945
 26     149     70    52       42     67    144    312    553    769      913     995     1134       1127     936     929    938          949     852     668     633     485     424     387     220    13748
 27     159     99    64       46     53    100    186    330    523      747     863      909       1051     855     864    872          754     715     642     580     438     331     260     132    11573
 28      76     30    35       32     76    243    610    1092   984      862     782      881        963     886     993   1057          1170   1205     843     505     426     323     207     137    14418
 29      68     41    40       31     65    249    664    1149   1186    1060    1031      950       1029    1008     991   1170          1407   1440     962     637     473     336     268     147    16402
 30      88     61    43       29     73    252    710    1185   1209    1073    1035     1045       1006    1052    1088   1256          1449   1546     968     772     530     391     280     168    17309
 31      84     42    41       33     67    267    715    1258   1176    1035     937      960       1001    1097    1065   1197          1343   1350     886     654     435     389     275     154    16461




                                                                                                                                                                                                        Page 154
                                                                                          County of Martin
                                                                     145_EB : Monthly Hourly Volume for March 2011

Location ID:                   145_EB                                                              Seasonal Factor Group:             145_EB
County:                        Martin                                                              Daily Factor Group:
Functional Class:              Minor Arterial                                                      Axle Factor Group:
Location:                      SR714 (Martin Hwy)                                                  Growth Factor Group:

       0:00   1:00      2:00     3:00   4:00   5:00   6:00   7:00   8:00   9:00   10:00    11:00      12:00   13:00   14:00   15:00     16:00   17:00   18:00   19:00   20:00   21:00   22:00   23:00 TOTAL
  1      15     15       15       19     44    196    506    1077   811    600     536      527        520     521     624     582       593     522     386     261     203     133      65      47     8818
  2      22     13        8       20     41    186    526    1031   792    579     518      550        634     510     518     582       612     623     439     278     225     138      75      47     8967
  3      14     13        9       22     55    201    499    1065   791    612     524      566        537     568     614     587       653     615     485     319     192     119     110      55     9225
  4      29     15       17       20     50    173    478    1037   743    584     579      628        532     559     616     624       651     586     502     315     206     136     129     116     9325
  5      43     33       27       24     32     94    193    337    508    575     606      606        570     501     460     454       406     407     362     243     190     145     143      71     7030
  6      49     16       16       22     29     62    100    190    279    340     483      435        545     500     405     394       444     353     344     214     152     117      88      48     5625
  7      16     21        8       17     54    187    536    999    796    586     491      557        547     489     573     658       682     553     438     272     141      99      73      44     8837
  8      25         8    11       10     48    202    513    1076   828    600     508      514        562     544     614     618       650     638     426     283     190     107      86      46     9107
  9      29         7    13       16     42    201    509    1065   831    571     526      585        530     492     606     648       650     642     478     299     202     208      83      56     9289
 10      30     10        8       13     55    194    517    1035   782    552     547      564        489     477     585     590       568     562     410     238     200     180      94      62     8762
 11      41     14       11       22     44    182    503    978    804    621     545      588        584     496     678     609       703     639     483     336     228     150     163      66     9488
 12      66     34       25       13     38     93    196    339    488    548     537      594        567     497     453     445       409     458     378     258     191     179     139      93     7038
 13      56     27       33       29     62     73    149    236    292    426     465      575        469     420     439     426       381     321     304     224     133     105      43      31     5719
 14      26     10       17       41    193    443    973    789    551    528     535      516        474     597     592     588       598     428     278     203     148      77      55      20     8680
 15      15     16       19       48    198    485    994    889    594    528     514      541        535     603     644     647       603     426     264     199     166     119      52      21     9120
 16      15     12       22       48    183    488    1014   850    608    559     555      552        538     625     595     657       661     451     320     247     216     100      54      18     9388
 17
 18      32     19       17       13     54    180    472    982    754    635     561      599        635     548     611     684       642     679     477     349     250     203     141      88     9625
 19      68     24       17       24     34    108    184    305    441    529     607      592        583     527     491     412       422     425     376     329     250     175     137      97     7157
 20      64     23       16       17     44     69    105    164    248    347     467      526        573     448     406     398       379     388     322     280     245     147      94      51     5821
 21      22     13        9       13     44    166    492    1014   777    597     524      559        582     550     581     618       656     550     398     266     158     145      84      39     8857
 22      23     18        8       18     39    192    499    1001   858    584     498      590        585     542     606     607       621     639     442     287     191     181      73      47     9149
 23      34     18       11       13     40    166    527    1026   786    613     577      547        577     521     599     638       654     643     438     308     245     187     103      47     9318
 24      35     10       13       12     61    177    501    1011   748    606     526      558        515     588     644     597       668     614     439     323     221     224     119      62     9272
 25      35     16       22       19     39    182    435    783    744    617     557      598        609     537     562     563       616     592     408     315     221     149     112      63     8794
 26      56     29       13       21     40     96    202    298    425    479     553      619        588     438     449     431       452     360     337     288     190     170     160      92     6786
 27      77     33       27       18     30     65    120    183    252    379     450      510        563     440     427     433       355     311     325     271     186     150     112      61     5778
 28      29     16       12       23     48    177    429    722    611    484     424      464        506     463     446     449       453     437     306     191     166     143      76      43     7118
 29      17     12       16       16     41    179    435    771    760    583     550      505        526     492     468     504       555     510     394     279     166     110     100      59     8048
 30      34     25       18       22     47    178    493    777    733    616     559      531        508     502     506     574       579     576     399     288     210     159      95      56     8485
 31      34     17        9       19     47    183    465    814    719    605     526      505        506     530     457     511       514     485     368     252     155     164     117      52     8054




                                                                                                                                                                                                       Page 155
                                                                                       County of Martin
                                                                 145_WB : Monthly Hourly Volume for March 2011

Location ID:                145_WB                                                              Seasonal Factor Group:             145_WB
County:                     Martin                                                              Daily Factor Group:
Functional Class:           Minor Arterial                                                      Axle Factor Group:
Location:                   SR714 (Martin Hwy)                                                  Growth Factor Group:

       0:00   1:00   2:00     3:00   4:00   5:00   6:00   7:00   8:00   9:00   10:00    11:00      12:00   13:00   14:00   15:00     16:00   17:00   18:00   19:00   20:00   21:00   22:00   23:00 TOTAL
  1      71     16    24       10     28     73    276    684    525    455     453      439        525     648     625     769       873     937     601     426     289     227     144      81     9199
  2      50     27    16       12     26     65    275    640    552    435     422      536        584     557     603     775       912     948     657     440     336     249     159     103     9379
  3      52     26    27       14     21     80    269    688    546    431     468      493        566     612     626     782       967    1011     627     425     296     218     134     120     9499
  4      58     25    30       14     34     72    239    677    524    462     488      456        576     619     636     741       936     893     665     404     313     280     220     147     9509
  5      86     51    39       24     41     55    132    293    421    457     457      539        521     537     517     539       531     481     389     359     239     234     177     128     7247
  6      72     39    44       23     23     44     76    144    271    327     389      442        458     436     426     438       415     405     339     306     209     180     108      74     5688
  7      39     17    25       10     21     68    270    649    590    453     450      450        550     629     618     733       912     943     598     406     254     212     127      76     9100
  8      54     21    22       10     28     64    301    687    535    460     428      461        501     585     638     755       913    1002     610     411     322     260     125     104     9297
  9      54     30    25       15     28     71    296    665    578    450     424      493        527     604     635     776       934     985     628     441     354     225     155     116     9509
 10      65     23    28       13     23     77    282    708    523    466     428      453        546     576     588     701       913     956     623     401     313     226     174     116     9222
 11      51     36    28       12     25     76    245    694    561    442     488      490        582     615     653     840       917     899     606     454     308     285     225     140     9672
 12     107     41    39       25     36     58    116    272    374    374     432      495        508     543     548     554       516     469     427     329     286     246     193     117     7105
 13      88     51    44       23     35     66    121    263    329    377     394      503        441     420     462     426       399     368     332     266     180     136      80      47     5851
 14      22     24    11       27     76    211    629    531    438    404     445      532        578     624     694     929       987     597     417     329     215     156     100      69     9045
 15      23     17    14       25     65    246    660    534    440    428     449      520        615     642     745     910      1016     624     404     386     240     150     101      62     9316
 16      35     25    12       23     75    245    686    531    457    414     469      545        590     628     716     940       964     623     513     423     271     191     101      54     9531
 17
 18      74     41    34       26     26     67    259    667    577    475     453      582        603     667     644     799       887     896     623     464     374     313     217     151     9919
 19      88     57    51       32     25     69    122    229    375    401     458      506        529     549     526     535       522     467     444     350     313     274     249     146     7317
 20     108     48    46       23     17     37     75    151    240    352     403      381        454     440     428     429       393     436     372     312     243     160     100      69     5717
 21      33     20    13        8     19     70    234    700    520    445     445      501        518     583     596     694       947     928     605     385     288     217     129      89     8987
 22      44     22    15       14     28     77    275    660    543    480     395      462        530     610     650     789       931     964     610     446     355     251     158      88     9397
 23      55     24    20        9     26     83    253    670    564    413     468      462        562     599     685     721       959     991     621     464     372     233     177     132     9563
 24      51     20    22       11     26     69    272    674    528    438     470      455        595     669     652     760       900    1020     616     461     353     294     185     114     9655
 25      64     42    36       18     32     79    220    429    519    470     480      530        547     613     678     772       848     857     575     411     329     263     214     125     9151
 26      93     41    39       21     27     48    110    255    344    434     442      515        539     498     480     507       497     492     331     345     295     254     227     128     6962
 27      82     66    37       28     23     35     66    147    271    368     413      399        488     415     437     439       399     404     317     309     252     181     148      71     5795
 28      47     14    23        9     28     66    181    370    373    378     358      417        457     423     547     608       717     768     537     314     260     180     131      94     7300
 29      51     29    24       15     24     70    229    378    426    477     481      445        503     516     523     666       852     930     568     358     307     226     168      88     8354
 30      54     36    25        7     26     74    217    408    476    457     476      514        498     550     582     682       870     970     569     484     320     232     185     112     8824
 31      50     25    32       14     20     84    250    444    457    430     411      455        495     567     608     686       829     865     518     402     280     225     158     102     8407




                                                                                                                                                                                                    Page 156
                      
              Appendix C  
    Travel Time and Delay Study Reports 

              




                                           Page 157
                                  AECOM
                               (954) 745-7200
                                   Sunrise, FL



PC-Travel Reports for study: SR714-EB-2
 Report Name                                           Page

 Study Summary                                          2
 Overall Output Statistics                              3
 Fuel Consumption & Emissions                           4
 Detailed Statistics By Run - Travel Times              5
 Detailed Statistics By Run - Stops                     7
 Detailed Statistics By Run - Average Speed             9
 Detailed Statistics By Run - Total Delay               11
 Speed/Distance Profiles of All Runs                    13
 Time/Space Trajectories of All Runs                    14
 Speed Profile (Distance vs Spd) for SR 714_2-1-R002    15
 Speed Profile (Time vs Spd) for SR 714_2-1-R002        17
 Speed Profile (Time vs Spd) for SR 714_2-1-R004        18
 Speed Profile (Time vs Spd) for SR 714_2-1-R008        19
 Speed Profile (Time vs Spd) for SR 714_2-1-R010        20
 Speed Profile (Time vs Spd) for SR 714_2-1-R012        21
 Speed Profile (Time vs Spd) for SR 714_2-1-R014        22
 Speed Profile (Time vs Spd) for SR 714_2-1-R016        23
 Speed Profile (Time vs Spd) for SR 714_2-1-R018        24
 Speed Profile (Time vs Spd) for SR 714_2-1-R020        25
 Speed Profile (Time vs Spd) for SR 714-EB-001          26
 Speed Profile (Time vs Spd) for SR 714-EB-002          27
 Speed Profile (Time vs Spd) for SR 714-EB-003          28
 Speed Profile (Time vs Spd) for SR 714-EB-004          29




                                                              Page 158
                                                AECOM
                                             (954) 745-7200
                                                Sunrise, FL
                                                                               Study Name : SR714-EB-2
                                                                               Study Date : 10/21/2011
Study Summary                                                                  Page No.   :2
Runs Used in This Study                                                   Node Info
                           Start     Start            Before/   Run
         Run Title                           Length                       #     Len               Name
                           Date      Time              After    Type
                                                                          1       0      Start
SR 714_2-1-R002           10/20/11   11:10    8289     Before   Primary
                                                                          2     1753     Citrus Blvd
                                                                          3     2670     SW 42nd Ave
SR 714_2-1-R004           10/20/11   11:22    8335     Before   Primary
                                                                          4     3267     FL Turnpike
                                                                          5      625     End
SR 714_2-1-R008           10/20/11   11:41    8336     Before   Primary
                                                                          Length of Study Route = 8,315 feet

SR 714_2-1-R010           10/20/11   11:50    8355     Before   Primary


SR 714_2-1-R012           10/20/11   11:59    8324     Before   Primary


SR 714_2-1-R014           10/20/11   12:08    8301     Before   Primary


SR 714_2-1-R016           10/20/11   12:18    8319     Before   Primary


SR 714_2-1-R018           10/20/11   12:31    8333     Before   Primary


SR 714_2-1-R020           10/20/11   12:42    8261     Before   Primary


SR 714-EB-001             10/13/11   11:22    8273     Before   Primary


SR 714-EB-002             10/13/11   11:38    8286     Before   Primary


SR 714-EB-003             10/13/11   11:48    8347     Before   Primary


SR 714-EB-004             10/13/11   11:58    8347     Before   Primary



Notes:




                                                                                                 Page 159
                                                          AECOM
                                                   (954) 745-7200
                                                          Sunrise, FL
                                                                                        Study Name : SR714-EB-2
                                                                                        Study Date : 10/21/2011
Overall Output Statistics                                                               Page No.   :3


 Node     Length                   Node          Travel        # of     Avg     Total   Time <=   Time <=   Time <=
   #                                             Time         Stops     Speed   Delay   0 MPH     45 MPH    55 MPH
   1         0       Start
   2        1753     Citrus Blvd                 25.2          0.0      47.4     0.4      0.0       2.9      25.2
   3        2670     SW 42nd Ave                 48.3          0.2      37.7     8.1      3.6      28.2      48.3
   4        3267     FL Turnpike                 68.4          0.5      32.6    18.7      7.8      51.3      68.4
   5        625      End                         12.5          0.0      34.2     2.5      0.0      12.1      12.1

 Total     8,315                                 154.4         0.7      36.7    29.6     11.5      94.5      154.0

Stats based on 13 BEFORE runs.
Stops based on a Stop Speed of 5 MPH.
Total Delay based on a Normal Speed of 45 MPH.




                                                                                                      Page 160
                                                 AECOM
                                          (954) 745-7200
                                                 Sunrise, FL
                                                                                   Study Name : SR714-EB-2
                                                                                   Study Date : 10/21/2011
Fuel Consumption & Emissions                                                       Page No.   :4


 Node     Length            Node Name   Fuel          HC         CO       NOx
   #                                    (gal)       (grams)    (grams)   (grams)
   1         0      Start
   2       1753     Citrus Blvd         0.0145       0.5648    6.6886    0.1286
   3       2670     SW 42nd Ave         0.0230       1.5288    17.3397   0.7126
   4       3267     FL Turnpike         0.0305       2.3622    26.5124   1.2326
   5        625     End                 0.0071       0.9164    9.8296    0.7367

 Total     8,315                        0.0751       5.3722    60.3703   2.8106

Stats based on 13 BEFORE runs.




                                                                                                Page 161
                                                         AECOM
                                                  (954) 745-7200
                                                         Sunrise, FL
                                                                                                                 Study Name : SR714-EB-2
                                                                                                                 Study Date : 10/21/2011
Detailed Statistics By Run                                                                                       Page No.   :5



                                           Travel Time (sec) by Section
                                                        02              04              08              10              12              14              16            18
                                                2-1-R0          2-1-R0          2-1-R0          2-1-R0          2-1-R0          2-1-R0          2-1-R0          2-1-R0
                                           714_            714_            714_            714_            714_            714_            714_            714_
                                      SR              SR              SR              SR              SR              SR              SR              SR


Node     Length           Node Name   Run #1          Run #2          Run #3          Run #4          Run #5          Run #6          Run #7          Run #8
  #
  1        0      Start
  2       1753    Citrus Blvd           29              24              25              24              24              25              24              29
  3       2670    SW 42nd Ave           43              40              40              42              39              57              39              75
  4       3267    FL Turnpike          100              47              75              57              54             104              70              66
  5       625     End                   16              11              14              11              10              15              13              10

Totals    8315                         188             122             154             134             127             201             146             180




                                                                                                                                           Page 162
                                                   AECOM
                                                 (954) 745-7200
                                                   Sunrise, FL
                                                                                                     Study Name : SR714-EB-2
                                                                                                     Study Date : 10/21/2011
Detailed Statistics By Run                                                                           Page No.   :6



                                           Travel Time (sec) by Section
                                                                        20         -001            02            03            04
                                                                   -R0                         B-0           B-0           B-0
                                                                2-1             -EB       14-E          14-E          14-E
                                                            14_          R7
                                                                            14          7             7             7
                                                      SR7              S             SR           SR            SR


           Node     Length           Node Name        Run #9          Run #10     Run #11       Run #12       Run #13
             #
             1        0      Start
             2       1753    Citrus Blvd                  28            24            24            24           24
             3       2670    SW 42nd Ave                  87            39            43            45           39
             4       3267    FL Turnpike                  77            65            57            68           49
             5       625     End                          14            12            13            13           10

           Totals    8315                                 206           140           137          150           122




                                                                                                                          Page 163
                                                            AECOM
                                                     (954) 745-7200
                                                            Sunrise, FL
                                                                                                                                Study Name : SR714-EB-2
                                                                                                                                Study Date : 10/21/2011
Detailed Statistics By Run                                                                                                      Page No.   :7



                                           Number of Stops by Section
                                                           02                 04                 08                 10                 12                 14                 16               18
                                                   2-1-R0             2-1-R0             2-1-R0             2-1-R0             2-1-R0             2-1-R0             2-1-R0             2-1-R0
                                           7   14_            7   14_            7   14_            7   14_            7   14_            7   14_            7   14_            7   14_
                                      SR                 SR                 SR                 SR                 SR                 SR                 SR                 SR


Node     Length           Node Name   Run #1             Run #2             Run #3             Run #4             Run #5             Run #6             Run #7             Run #8
  #
  1        0      Start
  2       1753    Citrus Blvd              0                  0                  0                  0                  0                  0                  0                  0
  3       2670    SW 42nd Ave              0                  0                  0                  0                  0                  0                  0                  1
  4       3267    FL Turnpike              1                  0                  1                  0                  0                  1                  1                  1
  5       625     End                      0                  0                  0                  0                  0                  0                  0                  0

Totals    8315                             1                  0                  1                  0                  0                  1                  1                  2


                                       Stops based on a Stop Speed of 5 MPH.




                                                                                                                                                             Page 164
                                                       AECOM
                                                   (954) 745-7200
                                                       Sunrise, FL
                                                                                                           Study Name : SR714-EB-2
                                                                                                           Study Date : 10/21/2011
Detailed Statistics By Run                                                                                 Page No.   :8



                                             Number of Stops by Section
                                                                              20         -001            02            03            04
                                                                         -R0                         B-0           B-0           B-0
                                                                      2-1             -EB       14-E          14-E          14-E
                                                                  14_          R7
                                                                                  14          7             7             7
                                                          SR7                S             SR           SR            SR


           Node     Length           Node Name            Run #9            Run #10     Run #11       Run #12       Run #13
             #
             1        0      Start
             2       1753    Citrus Blvd                      0                  0          0             0             0
             3       2670    SW 42nd Ave                      1                  0          0             0             0
             4       3267    FL Turnpike                      1                  1          0             0             0
             5       625     End                              0                  0          0             0             0

           Totals    8315                                     2                  1          0             0             0


                                           Stops based on a Stop Speed of 5 MPH.




                                                                                                                                Page 165
                                                         AECOM
                                                  (954) 745-7200
                                                         Sunrise, FL
                                                                                                                 Study Name : SR714-EB-2
                                                                                                                 Study Date : 10/21/2011
Detailed Statistics By Run                                                                                       Page No.   :9



                                      Average Speed (MPH) by Section
                                                        02              04              08              10              12              14              16            18
                                                2-1-R0          2-1-R0          2-1-R0          2-1-R0          2-1-R0          2-1-R0          2-1-R0          2-1-R0
                                           714_            714_            714_            714_            714_            714_            714_            714_
                                      SR              SR              SR              SR              SR              SR              SR              SR


Node     Length           Node Name   Run #1          Run #2          Run #3          Run #4          Run #5          Run #6          Run #7          Run #8
  #
  1        0      Start
  2       1753    Citrus Blvd          41.3            50.1            48.1            51.0            50.9            49.6            50.8            41.5
  3       2670    SW 42nd Ave          43.0            45.3            45.9            42.8            46.1            31.4            46.8            24.3
  4       3267    FL Turnpike          21.9            47.2            29.4            39.3            41.8            21.4            31.5            33.9
  5       625     End                  27.2            39.7            30.9            39.4            39.8            28.6            32.6            42.7

Totals    8315                         30.2            46.5            36.9            42.5            44.7            28.3            38.9            31.6




                                                                                                                                           Page 166
                                                    AECOM
                                                  (954) 745-7200
                                                     Sunrise, FL
                                                                                                       Study Name : SR714-EB-2
                                                                                                       Study Date : 10/21/2011
Detailed Statistics By Run                                                                             Page No.   : 10



                                           Average Speed (MPH) by Section
                                                                          20         -001            02            03            04
                                                                     -R0                         B-0           B-0           B-0
                                                                  2-1             -EB       14-E          14-E          14-E
                                                              14_          R7
                                                                              14          7             7             7
                                                       SR7               S             SR           SR            SR


           Node     Length           Node Name         Run #9           Run #10     Run #11       Run #12       Run #13
             #
             1        0      Start
             2       1753    Citrus Blvd                   42.8          50.9           50.4        51.3          50.6
             3       2670    SW 42nd Ave                   21.0          46.2           41.9        40.0          46.5
             4       3267    FL Turnpike                   28.9          34.4           39.2        32.7          45.9
             5       625     End                           29.5          34.6           33.4        33.8          41.0

           Totals    8315                                  27.5          40.6           41.5        38.0          46.6




                                                                                                                            Page 167
                                                               AECOM
                                                        (954) 745-7200
                                                               Sunrise, FL
                                                                                                                                   Study Name : SR714-EB-2
                                                                                                                                   Study Date : 10/21/2011
Detailed Statistics By Run                                                                                                         Page No.   : 11



                                                  Total Delay (sec) by Section
                                                              02                 04                 08                 10                 12                 14                 16               18
                                                      2-1-R0             2-1-R0             2-1-R0             2-1-R0             2-1-R0             2-1-R0             2-1-R0             2-1-R0
                                              7   14_            7   14_            7   14_            7   14_            7   14_            7   14_            7   14_            7   14_
                                         SR                 SR                 SR                 SR                 SR                 SR                 SR                 SR


Node     Length           Node Name     Run #1              Run #2             Run #3             Run #4             Run #5             Run #6             Run #7             Run #8
  #
  1        0      Start
  2       1753    Citrus Blvd                 2                  0                  0                  0                  0                  0                  0                  2
  3       2670    SW 42nd Ave                 2                  0                  0                  1                  0               16                    0               34
  4       3267    FL Turnpike              50                    0               25                    7                  4               54                 20                 16
  5       625     End                         6                  1                  4                  1                  0                  5                  3                  0

Totals    8315                             60                    1               29                    9                  4               75                 23                 52


                                      Total Delay based on a Normal Speed of 45 MPH.




                                                                                                                                                                Page 168
                                                     AECOM
                                                 (954) 745-7200
                                                     Sunrise, FL
                                                                                                         Study Name : SR714-EB-2
                                                                                                         Study Date : 10/21/2011
Detailed Statistics By Run                                                                               Page No.   : 12



                                           Total Delay (sec) by Section
                                                                            20         -001            02            03            04
                                                                       -R0                         B-0           B-0           B-0
                                                                    2-1             -EB       14-E          14-E          14-E
                                                                14_          R7
                                                                                14          7             7             7
                                                        S R7               S             SR           SR            SR


           Node     Length           Node Name          Run #9            Run #10     Run #11       Run #12       Run #13
             #
             1        0      Start
             2       1753    Citrus Blvd                    1                  0          0             0             0
             3       2670    SW 42nd Ave                    46                 0          2             4             0
             4       3267    FL Turnpike                    27              15            7             18            0
             5       625     End                            4                  2          3             3             0

           Totals    8315                                   78              17            12            25            0


                                     Total Delay based on a Normal Speed of 45 MPH.




                                                                                                                              Page 169
                                             AECOM
                                           (954) 745-7200
                                             Sunrise, FL
                                                                         Study Name : SR714-EB-2
                                                                         Study Date : 10/21/2011
Speed/Distance Profiles of All Runs                                      Page No.   : 13


Distance                                              Speed (MPH)
Scale: 1 in. = 2000 feet   10   20    30      40      50       60   70   80      90      100
           Start      0




   Citrus Blvd
                  2,000




                  4,000
 SW 42nd Ave




                  6,000




  FL Turnpike
                  8,000
           End




                 10,000




                 12,000




                 14,000




                 16,000


                                                                                      Page 170
                                                             AECOM
                                                          (954) 745-7200
                                                              Sunrise, FL
                                                                                                         Study Name : SR714-EB-2
                                                                                                         Study Date : 10/21/2011
Time/Space Trajectories of All Runs                                                                      Page No.   : 14


Distance                                                                Time into Run (secs)
Scale: 1 in. = 1500 feet               60 / (1 min.)   120 / (2 min.)      180 / (3 min.)    240 / (4 min.)   300 / (5 min.)
           Start      0




                  1,500
   Citrus Blvd




                  3,000




 SW 42nd Ave
                  4,500




                  6,000




                  7,500
  FL Turnpike


           End



                  9,000




                 10,500




                 12,000

                           Solid Line is Normal Speed of 45 MPH
                                                                                                                        Page 171
                                                        AECOM
                                                      (954) 745-7200
                                                        Sunrise, FL
                                                                                     Study Name : SR714-EB-2
                                                                                     Study Date : 10/21/2011
Speed Profile                                                                        Page No.   : 15
Run : SR 714_2-1-R002 Start Time: 11:10 (This is a Before Run)
Distance [Scale: 1 in. = 1000 feet]                               Speed (MPH)
                                  10        20   30      40       50      60    70   80      90      100
         Start       0




                 1,000




   Citrus Blvd                                   NL

                 2,000




                 3,000




                 4,000


 SW 42nd Ave                                                          NL




                 5,000




                 6,000




                 7,000




  FL Turnpike                          NL

                 8,000



                                                                                                  Page 172
                                                   AECOM
                                                 (954) 745-7200
                                                   Sunrise, FL
                                                                                Study Name : SR714-EB-2
                                                                                Study Date : 10/21/2011
Speed Profile                                                                   Page No.   : 16
Run : SR 714_2-1-R002 Start Time: 11:10 (This is a Before Run)
Distance [Scale: 1 in. = 1000 feet]                          Speed (MPH)
                                  10   20   30      40       50      60    70   80      90      100
               8,000

          End




                 9,000




                10,000




                11,000




                12,000




                13,000




                14,000




                15,000




                16,000



                                                                                             Page 173
                                                   AECOM
                                                (954) 745-7200
                                                    Sunrise, FL
                                                                                     Study Name : SR714-EB-2
                                                                                     Study Date : 10/21/2011
Time-Based Speed Profile                                                             Page No.   : 17
Run : SR 714_2-1-R002 Start Time:11:10 (This is a Before Run)

Time Into Run                                                    Speed (MPH)
Scale: 1 in. = 30 secs       10   20      30          40         50        60   70   80      90      100
                         0                                           Start




                    30                         Citrus Blvd




                    60


                                                                 SW 42nd Ave




                    90




                   120




                   150




                                         FL Turnpike
                   180
                                                           End




                   210




                   240


                                                                                                  Page 174
                                                 AECOM
                                               (954) 745-7200
                                                 Sunrise, FL
                                                                                  Study Name : SR714-EB-2
                                                                                  Study Date : 10/21/2011
Time-Based Speed Profile                                                          Page No.   : 18
Run : SR 714_2-1-R004 Start Time:11:22 (This is a Before Run)

Time Into Run                                                Speed (MPH)
Scale: 1 in. = 30 secs       10   20      30      40         50        60    70   80      90      100
                         0                                       Start




                                                               Citrus Blvd
                    30




                    60
                                                             SW 42nd Ave




                    90




                                                    FL Turnpike

                   120                                 End




                   150




                   180




                   210




                   240


                                                                                               Page 175
                                                 AECOM
                                               (954) 745-7200
                                                 Sunrise, FL
                                                                                    Study Name : SR714-EB-2
                                                                                    Study Date : 10/21/2011
Time-Based Speed Profile                                                            Page No.   : 19
Run : SR 714_2-1-R008 Start Time:11:41 (This is a Before Run)

Time Into Run                                                    Speed (MPH)
Scale: 1 in. = 30 secs       10   20      30          40         50       60   70   80      90      100
                         0                                          Start




                                                            Citrus Blvd
                    30




                    60
                                                                 SW 42nd Ave




                    90




                   120




                                        FL Turnpike

                   150
                                                           End




                   180




                   210




                   240


                                                                                                 Page 176
                                                 AECOM
                                               (954) 745-7200
                                                 Sunrise, FL
                                                                                  Study Name : SR714-EB-2
                                                                                  Study Date : 10/21/2011
Time-Based Speed Profile                                                          Page No.   : 20
Run : SR 714_2-1-R010 Start Time:11:50 (This is a Before Run)

Time Into Run                                                 Speed (MPH)
Scale: 1 in. = 30 secs       10   20      30      40          50       60    70   80      90      100
                         0                                          Start




                                                               Citrus Blvd
                    30




                    60

                                                       SW 42nd Ave




                    90




                   120
                                                       FL Turnpike

                                                        End



                   150




                   180




                   210




                   240


                                                                                               Page 177
                                                 AECOM
                                               (954) 745-7200
                                                 Sunrise, FL
                                                                                   Study Name : SR714-EB-2
                                                                                   Study Date : 10/21/2011
Time-Based Speed Profile                                                           Page No.   : 21
Run : SR 714_2-1-R012 Start Time:11:59 (This is a Before Run)

Time Into Run                                                 Speed (MPH)
Scale: 1 in. = 30 secs       10   20      30      40          50       60     70   80      90      100
                         0                                          Start




                                                                Citrus Blvd
                    30




                    60
                                                             SW 42nd Ave




                    90




                                                       FL Turnpike
                   120
                                                       End




                   150




                   180




                   210




                   240


                                                                                                Page 178
                                                 AECOM
                                               (954) 745-7200
                                                 Sunrise, FL
                                                                                 Study Name : SR714-EB-2
                                                                                 Study Date : 10/21/2011
Time-Based Speed Profile                                                         Page No.   : 22
Run : SR 714_2-1-R014 Start Time:12:08 (This is a Before Run)

Time Into Run                                                Speed (MPH)
Scale: 1 in. = 30 secs       10   20      30       40        50        60   70   80      90      100
                         0                                       Start




                                                             Citrus Blvd
                    30




                    60




                                           SW 42nd Ave
                    90




                   120




                   150




                   180

                                         FL Turnpike

                                                       End


                   210




                   240


                                                                                              Page 179
                                                 AECOM
                                               (954) 745-7200
                                                 Sunrise, FL
                                                                                  Study Name : SR714-EB-2
                                                                                  Study Date : 10/21/2011
Time-Based Speed Profile                                                          Page No.   : 23
Run : SR 714_2-1-R016 Start Time:12:18 (This is a Before Run)

Time Into Run                                              Speed (MPH)
Scale: 1 in. = 30 secs       10   20      30       40      50        60      70   80      90      100
                         0                                     Start




                                                               Citrus Blvd
                    30




                    60
                                                           SW 42nd Ave




                    90




                   120



                                           FL Turnpike

                                                     End
                   150




                   180




                   210




                   240


                                                                                               Page 180
                                                   AECOM
                                                 (954) 745-7200
                                                   Sunrise, FL
                                                                                 Study Name : SR714-EB-2
                                                                                 Study Date : 10/21/2011
Time-Based Speed Profile                                                         Page No.   : 24
Run : SR 714_2-1-R018 Start Time:12:31 (This is a Before Run)

Time Into Run                                                Speed (MPH)
Scale: 1 in. = 30 secs       10   20        30      40       50        60   70   80      90      100
                         0                                       Start




                    30




                                  Citrus Blvd

                    60




                    90




                                   SW 42nd Ave

                   120




                   150




                                                         FL Turnpike

                   180                                     End




                   210




                   240


                                                                                              Page 181
                                                       AECOM
                                                     (954) 745-7200
                                                       Sunrise, FL
                                                                                       Study Name : SR714-EB-2
                                                                                       Study Date : 10/21/2011
Time-Based Speed Profile                                                               Page No.   : 25
Run : SR 714_2-1-R020 Start Time:12:42 (This is a Before Run)

Time Into Run                                                       Speed (MPH)
Scale: 1 in. = 30 secs       10   20          30         40         50       60   70   80      90      100
                         0                                                Start




                    30




                    60
                                       Citrus Blvd




                    90




                                           SW 42nd Ave
                   120




                   150




                   180



                                           FL Turnpike

                                                              End
                   210




                   240


                                                                                                    Page 182
                                                  AECOM
                                               (954) 745-7200
                                                   Sunrise, FL
                                                                                    Study Name : SR714-EB-2
                                                                                    Study Date : 10/21/2011
Time-Based Speed Profile                                                            Page No.   : 26
Run : SR 714-EB-001 Start Time:11:22 (This is a Before Run)

Time Into Run                                                  Speed (MPH)
Scale: 1 in. = 30 secs       10   20      30        40         50       60     70   80      90      100
                         0                                          Start




                                                                 Citrus Blvd
                    30




                    60
                                                           SW 42nd Ave




                    90




                   120

                                               FL Turnpike

                                                         End


                   150




                   180




                   210




                   240


                                                                                                 Page 183
                                                  AECOM
                                               (954) 745-7200
                                                   Sunrise, FL
                                                                                    Study Name : SR714-EB-2
                                                                                    Study Date : 10/21/2011
Time-Based Speed Profile                                                            Page No.   : 27
Run : SR 714-EB-002 Start Time:11:38 (This is a Before Run)

Time Into Run                                                Speed (MPH)
Scale: 1 in. = 30 secs       10   20      30        40       50        60      70   80      90      100
                         0                                       Start




                                                                 Citrus Blvd
                    30




                    60

                                               SW 42nd Ave




                    90




                   120
                                               FL Turnpike

                                                     End



                   150




                   180




                   210




                   240


                                                                                                 Page 184
                                                 AECOM
                                               (954) 745-7200
                                                  Sunrise, FL
                                                                                   Study Name : SR714-EB-2
                                                                                   Study Date : 10/21/2011
Time-Based Speed Profile                                                           Page No.   : 28
Run : SR 714-EB-003 Start Time:11:48 (This is a Before Run)

Time Into Run                                                Speed (MPH)
Scale: 1 in. = 30 secs       10   20      30       40        50       60      70   80      90      100
                         0                                        Start




                                                                Citrus Blvd
                    30




                    60


                                           SW 42nd Ave




                    90




                   120




                                               FL Turnpike

                   150                             End




                   180




                   210




                   240


                                                                                                Page 185
                                                 AECOM
                                               (954) 745-7200
                                                 Sunrise, FL
                                                                                  Study Name : SR714-EB-2
                                                                                  Study Date : 10/21/2011
Time-Based Speed Profile                                                          Page No.   : 29
Run : SR 714-EB-004 Start Time:11:58 (This is a Before Run)

Time Into Run                                                Speed (MPH)
Scale: 1 in. = 30 secs       10   20      30      40         50       60     70   80      90      100
                         0                                         Start




                                                               Citrus Blvd
                    30




                    60
                                                             SW 42nd Ave




                    90




                                                        FL Turnpike

                   120                                 End




                   150




                   180




                   210




                   240


                                                                                               Page 186
                                    AECOM
                                (954) 745-7200
                                    Sunrise, FL



PC-Travel Reports for study: SR714-WB-2
  Report Name                                           Page

  Study Summary                                          2
  Overall Output Statistics                              3
  Detailed Statistics By Run - Travel Times              4
  Detailed Statistics By Run - Average Speed             6
  Detailed Statistics By Run - Total Delay               8
  Detailed Statistics By Run - Time <= 5 MPH             10
  Detailed Statistics By Run - Time <= 45 MPH            12
  Speed/Distance Profiles of All Runs                    14
  Time/Space Trajectories of All Runs                    15
  Speed Profile (Distance vs Spd) for SR 714_2-1-R001    16
  Speed Profile (Distance vs Spd) for SR 714_2-1-R003    18
  Speed Profile (Distance vs Spd) for SR 714_2-1-R005    20
  Speed Profile (Distance vs Spd) for SR 714_2-1-R007    22
  Speed Profile (Distance vs Spd) for SR 714_2-1-R009    24
  Speed Profile (Distance vs Spd) for SR 714_2-1-R011    26
  Speed Profile (Distance vs Spd) for SR 714_2-1-R015    28
  Speed Profile (Distance vs Spd) for SR 714_2-1-R017    30
  Speed Profile (Distance vs Spd) for SR 714_2-1-R019    32
  Speed Profile (Distance vs Spd) for SR 714-WB-001      34
  Speed Profile (Distance vs Spd) for SR 714-WB-002      36
  Speed Profile (Distance vs Spd) for SR 714-WB-004      38
  Speed Profile (Time vs Spd) for SR 714_2-1-R001        40
  Speed Profile (Time vs Spd) for SR 714_2-1-R003        41
  Speed Profile (Time vs Spd) for SR 714_2-1-R005        42
  Speed Profile (Time vs Spd) for SR 714_2-1-R007        43
  Speed Profile (Time vs Spd) for SR 714_2-1-R009        44
  Speed Profile (Time vs Spd) for SR 714_2-1-R011        45
  Speed Profile (Time vs Spd) for SR 714_2-1-R015        46
  Speed Profile (Time vs Spd) for SR 714_2-1-R017        47
  Speed Profile (Time vs Spd) for SR 714_2-1-R019        48
  Speed Profile (Time vs Spd) for SR 714-WB-001          49
  Speed Profile (Time vs Spd) for SR 714-WB-002          50
  Speed Profile (Time vs Spd) for SR 714-WB-004          51




                                                               Page 187
                                                AECOM
                                             (954) 745-7200
                                                Sunrise, FL
                                                                               Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                               Study Date : 10/21/2011
Study Summary                                                                  Page No.   :2
Runs Used in This Study                                                   Node Info
                           Start     Start            Before/   Run
         Run Title                           Length                       #     Len               Name
                           Date      Time              After    Type
                                                                          1       0      Start
SR 714_2-1-R001           10/20/11   11:05    8260     Before   Primary
                                                                          2      784     FL Turnpike
                                                                          3     3209     SW 42nd Ave
SR 714_2-1-R003           10/20/11   11:17    8167     Before   Primary
                                                                          4     2647     Citrus Blvd
                                                                          5     1497     End
SR 714_2-1-R005           10/20/11   11:26    8162     Before   Primary
                                                                          Length of Study Route = 8,137 feet

SR 714_2-1-R007           10/20/11   11:37    8204     Before   Primary


SR 714_2-1-R009           10/20/11   11:45    8194     Before   Primary


SR 714_2-1-R011           10/20/11   11:54    8194     Before   Primary


SR 714_2-1-R015           10/20/11   12:14    8229     Before   Primary


SR 714_2-1-R017           10/20/11   12:27    8175     Before   Primary


SR 714_2-1-R019           10/20/11   12:36    8170     Before   Primary


SR 714-WB-001             10/13/11   11:27    8187     Before   Primary


SR 714-WB-002             10/13/11   11:43    8188     Before   Primary


SR 714-WB-004             10/13/11   12:03    8154     Before   Primary



Notes:




                                                                                                 Page 188
                                                          AECOM
                                                   (954) 745-7200
                                                          Sunrise, FL
                                                                                        Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                        Study Date : 10/21/2011
Overall Output Statistics                                                               Page No.   :3


 Node     Length                   Node          Travel        # of     Avg     Total   Time <=   Time <=   Time <=
   #                                             Time         Stops     Speed   Delay   5 MPH     45 MPH    55 MPH
   1         0       Start
   2        784      FL Turnpike                  49.8         0.6      10.7    37.7     30.0      49.8          49.8
   3        3209     SW 42nd Ave                  59.7         0.2      36.7    10.7      2.0      52.8          59.7
   4        2647     Citrus Blvd                  44.8         0.1      40.3     4.8      0.2      31.2          44.8
   5        1497     End                          23.4         0.0      43.6     1.2      0.0       9.5          23.4

 Total     8,137                                 177.6         0.8      31.2    54.3     32.2      143.2     177.6

Stats based on 12 BEFORE runs.
Stops based on a Stop Speed of 5 MPH.
Total Delay based on a Normal Speed of 45 MPH.




                                                                                                      Page 189
                                                        AECOM
                                                  (954) 745-7200
                                                        Sunrise, FL
                                                                                                             Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                                             Study Date : 10/21/2011
Detailed Statistics By Run                                                                                   Page No.   :4



                                           Travel Time (sec) by Section
                                                       1             03              05              07              09              11              15              17
                                                   R00           -R0             -R0             -R0             -R0             -R0             -R0             -R0
                                              _2-1-         _2-1            _2-1            _2-1            _2-1            _2-1            _2-1            _2-1
                                           714        7 1 4           7 1 4           7 1 4           7 1 4           7 1 4           7 1 4           7 1 4
                                      SR           SR             SR              SR              SR              SR              SR              SR


Node     Length           Node Name   Run #1          Run #2      Run #3          Run #4          Run #5         Run #6          Run #7         Run #8
  #
  1        0      Start
  2       784     FL Turnpike           24             101           76              16              47             71              16              15
  3       3209    SW 42nd Ave           62              59           73              49              60             57              55              49
  4       2647    Citrus Blvd           47              46           53              39              51             52              39              39
  5       1497    End                   31              22           24              21              27             23              21              21

Totals    8137                         164             228           226            125             185             203            131             124




                                                                                                                                     Page 190
                                                     AECOM
                                               (954) 745-7200
                                                     Sunrise, FL
                                                                                                       Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                                       Study Date : 10/21/2011
Detailed Statistics By Run                                                                             Page No.   :5



                                          Travel Time (sec) by Section
                                                                               9              01               02             04
                                                                          R01              B-0              B-0             -0
                                                                     _2-1-            -W               -W               -WB
                                                                 714              714              714              714
                                                            SR               SR              SR               SR


               Node     Length           Node Name          Run #9       Run #10           Run #11          Run #12
                 #
                 1        0      Start
                 2       784     FL Turnpike                  111             29                 74               17
                 3       3209    SW 42nd Ave                  57              61                 78               56
                 4       2647    Citrus Blvd                  43              41                 45               42
                 5       1497    End                          23              21                 22               25

               Totals    8137                                 234            152                 219              140




                                                                                                                                 Page 191
                                                        AECOM
                                                  (954) 745-7200
                                                        Sunrise, FL
                                                                                                             Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                                             Study Date : 10/21/2011
Detailed Statistics By Run                                                                                   Page No.   :6



                                       Average Speed (MPH) by Section
                                                       1             03              05              07              09              11              15              17
                                                   R00           -R0             -R0             -R0             -R0             -R0             -R0             -R0
                                              _2-1-         _2-1            _2-1            _2-1            _2-1            _2-1            _2-1            _2-1
                                           714        7 1 4           7 1 4           7 1 4           7 1 4           7 1 4           7 1 4           7 1 4
                                      SR           SR             SR              SR              SR              SR              SR              SR


Node     Length           Node Name   Run #1          Run #2      Run #3          Run #4          Run #5         Run #6          Run #7         Run #8
  #
  1        0      Start
  2       784     FL Turnpike          23.3            5.3           7.0            33.6            11.6            7.8            33.6            38.2
  3       3209    SW 42nd Ave          35.2            37.2         30.1            44.6            36.5           38.2            40.2            44.5
  4       2647    Citrus Blvd          38.2            39.1         34.5            47.1            35.3           35.1            45.7            45.6
  5       1497    End                  34.1            47.2         42.0            49.0            39.2           44.8            49.1            49.4

Totals    8137                         34.1            24.4         24.6            44.7            30.2           27.5            42.4            44.9




                                                                                                                                     Page 192
                                                     AECOM
                                               (954) 745-7200
                                                     Sunrise, FL
                                                                                                       Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                                       Study Date : 10/21/2011
Detailed Statistics By Run                                                                             Page No.   :7



                                         Average Speed (MPH) by Section
                                                                               9              01               02             04
                                                                          R01              B-0              B-0             -0
                                                                     _2-1-            -W               -W               -WB
                                                                 714              714              714              714
                                                            SR               SR              SR               SR


               Node     Length           Node Name          Run #9       Run #10           Run #11          Run #12
                 #
                 1        0      Start
                 2       784     FL Turnpike                  5.0            18.4                7.3          32.8
                 3       3209    SW 42nd Ave                 38.2            36.0            28.0             39.0
                 4       2647    Citrus Blvd                 42.2            44.1            40.2             43.0
                 5       1497    End                         44.7            49.8            47.5             40.7

               Totals    8137                                23.8            36.7            25.5             39.7




                                                                                                                                 Page 193
                                                             AECOM
                                                      (954) 745-7200
                                                             Sunrise, FL
                                                                                                                  Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                                                  Study Date : 10/21/2011
Detailed Statistics By Run                                                                                        Page No.   :8



                                                 Total Delay (sec) by Section
                                                            1             03              05              07              09              11              15              17
                                                        R00           -R0             -R0             -R0             -R0             -R0             -R0             -R0
                                                _   2-1-         _2-1            _2-1            _2-1            _2-1            _2-1            _2-1            _2-1
                                             714           7 1 4           7 1 4           7 1 4           7 1 4           7 1 4           7 1 4           7 1 4
                                        SR              SR             SR              SR              SR              SR              SR              SR


Node     Length           Node Name     Run #1             Run #2      Run #3          Run #4          Run #5         Run #6          Run #7         Run #8
  #
  1        0      Start
  2       784     FL Turnpike              12                89           64               4              35             59               4               2
  3       3209    SW 42nd Ave              13                10           24               0              11              8               6               0
  4       2647    Citrus Blvd                7               6            12               0              11             11               0               0
  5       1497    End                        8               0             1               0               3              0               0               0

Totals    8137                             40               105           101              4              60             78              10               2


                                      Total Delay based on a Normal Speed of 45 MPH.




                                                                                                                                          Page 194
                                                     AECOM
                                               (954) 745-7200
                                                     Sunrise, FL
                                                                                                         Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                                         Study Date : 10/21/2011
Detailed Statistics By Run                                                                               Page No.   :9



                                          Total Delay (sec) by Section
                                                                               9              01                 02               04
                                                                          R01              B-0                B-0               -0
                                                                     _2-1-            -W                 -W                 -WB
                                                                 714              714                714                714
                                                            SR               SR              SR                 SR


               Node     Length           Node Name          Run #9       Run #10           Run #11            Run #12
                 #
                 1        0      Start
                 2       784     FL Turnpike                  99              17                 62                 5
                 3       3209    SW 42nd Ave                     8            12                 29                 7
                 4       2647    Citrus Blvd                     3            1                  5                  2
                 5       1497    End                             0            0                  0                  2

               Totals    8137                                 110             30                 96                 16


                                  Total Delay based on a Normal Speed of 45 MPH.




                                                                                                                                     Page 195
                                                        AECOM
                                                  (954) 745-7200
                                                        Sunrise, FL
                                                                                                             Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                                             Study Date : 10/21/2011
Detailed Statistics By Run                                                                                   Page No.   : 10



                                           Time Below 5 MPH by Section
                                                       1             03              05              07              09              11              15              17
                                                   R00           -R0             -R0             -R0             -R0             -R0             -R0             -R0
                                              _2-1-         _2-1            _2-1            _2-1            _2-1            _2-1            _2-1            _2-1
                                           714        7 1 4           7 1 4           7 1 4           7 1 4           7 1 4           7 1 4           7 1 4
                                      SR           SR             SR              SR              SR              SR              SR              SR


Node     Length           Node Name   Run #1          Run #2      Run #3          Run #4          Run #5         Run #6          Run #7         Run #8
  #
  1        0      Start
  2       784     FL Turnpike              0            81           55               0              26             48               0               0
  3       3209    SW 42nd Ave              0            0             6               0               0              0               0               0
  4       2647    Citrus Blvd              0            0             0               0               2              0               0               0
  5       1497    End                      0            0             0               0               0              0               0               0

Totals    8137                             0            81           61               0              28             48               0               0




                                                                                                                                     Page 196
                                                     AECOM
                                               (954) 745-7200
                                                     Sunrise, FL
                                                                                                         Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                                         Study Date : 10/21/2011
Detailed Statistics By Run                                                                               Page No.   : 11



                                         Time Below 5 MPH by Section
                                                                              9               01                 02               04
                                                                          R01              B-0                B-0               -0
                                                                     _2-1-            -W                 -W                 -WB
                                                                 714              714                714                714
                                                            SR               SR              SR                 SR


               Node     Length           Node Name          Run #9       Run #10           Run #11            Run #12
                 #
                 1        0      Start
                 2       784     FL Turnpike                  90              7                  53                 0
                 3       3209    SW 42nd Ave                     0            0                  18                 0
                 4       2647    Citrus Blvd                     0            0                  0                  0
                 5       1497    End                             0            0                  0                  0

               Totals    8137                                 90              7                  71                 0




                                                                                                                                     Page 197
                                                        AECOM
                                                  (954) 745-7200
                                                        Sunrise, FL
                                                                                                             Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                                             Study Date : 10/21/2011
Detailed Statistics By Run                                                                                   Page No.   : 12



                                        Time Below 45 MPH by Section
                                                       1             03              05              07              09              11              15              17
                                                   R00           -R0             -R0             -R0             -R0             -R0             -R0             -R0
                                              _2-1-         _2-1            _2-1            _2-1            _2-1            _2-1            _2-1            _2-1
                                           714        7 1 4           7 1 4           7 1 4           7 1 4           7 1 4           7 1 4           7 1 4
                                      SR           SR             SR              SR              SR              SR              SR              SR


Node     Length           Node Name   Run #1          Run #2      Run #3          Run #4          Run #5         Run #6          Run #7         Run #8
  #
  1        0      Start
  2       784     FL Turnpike           24             101           76              16              47             71              16              15
  3       3209    SW 42nd Ave           62              42           73              28              53             57              55              27
  4       2647    Citrus Blvd           38              46           53               0              33             52              15              13
  5       1497    End                   26              3            20               0              15              9               0               0

Totals    8137                         150             192           222             44             148             189             86              55




                                                                                                                                     Page 198
                                                     AECOM
                                               (954) 745-7200
                                                     Sunrise, FL
                                                                                                          Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                                          Study Date : 10/21/2011
Detailed Statistics By Run                                                                                Page No.   : 13



                                         Time Below 45 MPH by Section
                                                                               9              01                  02             04
                                                                          R01              B-0                 B-0             -0
                                                                     _2-1-            -W                  -W               -WB
                                                                 714              714                 714              714
                                                            SR               SR              SR                  SR


               Node     Length           Node Name          Run #9       Run #10           Run #11             Run #12
                 #
                 1        0      Start
                 2       784     FL Turnpike                  111             29                 74                  17
                 3       3209    SW 42nd Ave                  57              61                 62                  56
                 4       2647    Citrus Blvd                  43              18                 25                  38
                 5       1497    End                          14              0                   4                  23

               Totals    8137                                 225            108                 165                 134




                                                                                                                                    Page 199
                                             AECOM
                                           (954) 745-7200
                                             Sunrise, FL
                                                                          Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                          Study Date : 10/21/2011
Speed/Distance Profiles of All Runs                                       Page No.   : 14


Distance                                               Speed (MPH)
Scale: 1 in. = 2000 feet   10   20    30      40       50       60   70    80     90      100
           Start      0


  FL Turnpike




                  2,000




 SW 42nd Ave 4,000




                  6,000

   Citrus Blvd




           End 8,000




                 10,000




                 12,000




                 14,000




                 16,000


                                                                                       Page 200
                                                             AECOM
                                                          (954) 745-7200
                                                              Sunrise, FL
                                                                                                        Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                                        Study Date : 10/21/2011
Time/Space Trajectories of All Runs                                                                     Page No.   : 15


Distance                                                                Time into Run (secs)
Scale: 1 in. = 1500 feet               60 / (1 min.)   120 / (2 min.)      180 / (3 min.)    240 / (4 min.)   300 / (5 min.)
           Start      0



  FL Turnpike



                  1,500




                  3,000




 SW 42nd Ave


                  4,500




                  6,000


   Citrus Blvd




                  7,500


           End




                  9,000




                 10,500




                 12,000

                           Solid Line is Normal Speed of 45 MPH
                                                                                                                        Page 201
                                                        AECOM
                                                      (954) 745-7200
                                                        Sunrise, FL
                                                                                     Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                     Study Date : 10/21/2011
Speed Profile                                                                        Page No.   : 16
Run : SR 714_2-1-R001 Start Time: 11:05 (This is a Before Run)
Distance [Scale: 1 in. = 1000 feet]                               Speed (MPH)
                                  10   20        30      40       50      60    70    80     90      100
         Start       0




  FL Turnpike
                                                  NL
                 1,000




                 2,000




                 3,000




 SW 42nd Ave 4,000
                                                        NL




                 5,000




                 6,000




   Citrus Blvd
                                            NL

                 7,000




                 8,000


                                                                                                  Page 202
                                                   AECOM
                                                 (954) 745-7200
                                                   Sunrise, FL
                                                                                Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                Study Date : 10/21/2011
Speed Profile                                                                   Page No.   : 17
Run : SR 714_2-1-R001 Start Time: 11:05 (This is a Before Run)
Distance [Scale: 1 in. = 1000 feet]                          Speed (MPH)
                                  10   20   30      40       50      60    70    80     90      100
                8,000
          End




                9,000




               10,000




               11,000




               12,000




               13,000




               14,000




               15,000




               16,000


                                                                                             Page 203
                                                             AECOM
                                                           (954) 745-7200
                                                             Sunrise, FL
                                                                                          Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                          Study Date : 10/21/2011
Speed Profile                                                                             Page No.   : 18
Run : SR 714_2-1-R003 Start Time: 11:17 (This is a Before Run)
Distance [Scale: 1 in. = 1000 feet]                                    Speed (MPH)
                                  10   20             30      40       50      60    70    80     90      100
         Start       0




  FL Turnpike                               NL

                 1,000




                 2,000




                 3,000




 SW 42nd Ave 4,000                               NL




                 5,000




                 6,000




   Citrus Blvd                                                        NL


                 7,000




                 8,000


                                                                                                       Page 204
                                                   AECOM
                                                 (954) 745-7200
                                                   Sunrise, FL
                                                                                Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                Study Date : 10/21/2011
Speed Profile                                                                   Page No.   : 19
Run : SR 714_2-1-R003 Start Time: 11:17 (This is a Before Run)
Distance [Scale: 1 in. = 1000 feet]                          Speed (MPH)
                                  10   20   30      40       50      60    70    80     90      100
                8,000
          End




                9,000




               10,000




               11,000




               12,000




               13,000




               14,000




               15,000




               16,000


                                                                                             Page 205
                                                   AECOM
                                                 (954) 745-7200
                                                   Sunrise, FL
                                                                                Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                Study Date : 10/21/2011
Speed Profile                                                                   Page No.   : 20
Run : SR 714_2-1-R005 Start Time: 11:26 (This is a Before Run)
Distance [Scale: 1 in. = 1000 feet]                          Speed (MPH)
                                  10   20   30      40       50      60    70    80     90      100
         Start       0




  FL Turnpike                          NL
                 1,000




                 2,000




                 3,000




 SW 42nd Ave 4,000                     NL




                 5,000




                 6,000




   Citrus Blvd                                      NL


                 7,000




                 8,000


                                                                                             Page 206
                                                   AECOM
                                                 (954) 745-7200
                                                   Sunrise, FL
                                                                                Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                Study Date : 10/21/2011
Speed Profile                                                                   Page No.   : 21
Run : SR 714_2-1-R005 Start Time: 11:26 (This is a Before Run)
Distance [Scale: 1 in. = 1000 feet]                          Speed (MPH)
                                  10   20   30      40       50      60    70    80     90      100
                8,000
          End




                9,000




               10,000




               11,000




               12,000




               13,000




               14,000




               15,000




               16,000


                                                                                             Page 207
                                                   AECOM
                                                 (954) 745-7200
                                                   Sunrise, FL
                                                                                Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                Study Date : 10/21/2011
Speed Profile                                                                   Page No.   : 22
Run : SR 714_2-1-R007 Start Time: 11:37 (This is a Before Run)
Distance [Scale: 1 in. = 1000 feet]                          Speed (MPH)
                                  10   20   30      40       50      60    70    80     90      100
         Start       0




  FL Turnpike                                      NL

                 1,000




                 2,000




                 3,000




                                                                 NL
 SW 42nd Ave 4,000




                 5,000




                 6,000




   Citrus Blvd                                                   NL


                 7,000




                 8,000


                                                                                             Page 208
                                                   AECOM
                                                 (954) 745-7200
                                                   Sunrise, FL
                                                                                Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                Study Date : 10/21/2011
Speed Profile                                                                   Page No.   : 23
Run : SR 714_2-1-R007 Start Time: 11:37 (This is a Before Run)
Distance [Scale: 1 in. = 1000 feet]                          Speed (MPH)
                                  10   20   30      40       50      60    70    80     90      100
                8,000
          End




                9,000




               10,000




               11,000




               12,000




               13,000




               14,000




               15,000




               16,000


                                                                                             Page 209
                                                        AECOM
                                                      (954) 745-7200
                                                        Sunrise, FL
                                                                                     Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                     Study Date : 10/21/2011
Speed Profile                                                                        Page No.   : 24
Run : SR 714_2-1-R009 Start Time: 11:45 (This is a Before Run)
Distance [Scale: 1 in. = 1000 feet]                               Speed (MPH)
                                  10   20        30      40       50      60    70    80     90      100
         Start       0




  FL Turnpike                          NL

                 1,000




                 2,000




                 3,000




 SW 42nd Ave 4,000                          NL




                 5,000




                 6,000




   Citrus Blvd                         NL


                 7,000




                 8,000


                                                                                                  Page 210
                                                   AECOM
                                                 (954) 745-7200
                                                   Sunrise, FL
                                                                                Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                Study Date : 10/21/2011
Speed Profile                                                                   Page No.   : 25
Run : SR 714_2-1-R009 Start Time: 11:45 (This is a Before Run)
Distance [Scale: 1 in. = 1000 feet]                          Speed (MPH)
                                  10   20   30      40       50      60    70    80     90      100
                8,000
          End




                9,000




               10,000




               11,000




               12,000




               13,000




               14,000




               15,000




               16,000


                                                                                             Page 211
                                                   AECOM
                                                 (954) 745-7200
                                                   Sunrise, FL
                                                                                 Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                 Study Date : 10/21/2011
Speed Profile                                                                    Page No.   : 26
Run : SR 714_2-1-R011 Start Time: 11:54 (This is a Before Run)
Distance [Scale: 1 in. = 1000 feet]                           Speed (MPH)
                                  10   20   30      40        50      60    70    80     90      100
         Start       0




  FL Turnpike                          NL

                 1,000




                 2,000




                 3,000




 SW 42nd Ave 4,000                                  NL




                 5,000




                 6,000




   Citrus Blvd                                           NL


                 7,000




                 8,000


                                                                                              Page 212
                                                   AECOM
                                                 (954) 745-7200
                                                   Sunrise, FL
                                                                                Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                Study Date : 10/21/2011
Speed Profile                                                                   Page No.   : 27
Run : SR 714_2-1-R011 Start Time: 11:54 (This is a Before Run)
Distance [Scale: 1 in. = 1000 feet]                          Speed (MPH)
                                  10   20   30      40       50      60    70    80     90      100
                8,000
          End




                9,000




               10,000




               11,000




               12,000




               13,000




               14,000




               15,000




               16,000


                                                                                             Page 213
                                                   AECOM
                                                 (954) 745-7200
                                                   Sunrise, FL
                                                                                Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                Study Date : 10/21/2011
Speed Profile                                                                   Page No.   : 28
Run : SR 714_2-1-R015 Start Time: 12:14 (This is a Before Run)
Distance [Scale: 1 in. = 1000 feet]                          Speed (MPH)
                                  10   20   30         40    50      60    70    80     90      100
         Start       0




  FL Turnpike                                     NL

                 1,000




                 2,000




                 3,000




 SW 42nd Ave 4,000                                          NL




                 5,000




                 6,000




   Citrus Blvd                                                   NL


                 7,000




                 8,000


                                                                                             Page 214
                                                   AECOM
                                                 (954) 745-7200
                                                   Sunrise, FL
                                                                                Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                Study Date : 10/21/2011
Speed Profile                                                                   Page No.   : 29
Run : SR 714_2-1-R015 Start Time: 12:14 (This is a Before Run)
Distance [Scale: 1 in. = 1000 feet]                          Speed (MPH)
                                  10   20   30      40       50      60    70    80     90      100
                8,000
          End




                9,000




               10,000




               11,000




               12,000




               13,000




               14,000




               15,000




               16,000


                                                                                             Page 215
                                                   AECOM
                                                 (954) 745-7200
                                                   Sunrise, FL
                                                                                  Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                  Study Date : 10/21/2011
Speed Profile                                                                     Page No.   : 30
Run : SR 714_2-1-R017 Start Time: 12:27 (This is a Before Run)
Distance [Scale: 1 in. = 1000 feet]                            Speed (MPH)
                                  10   20   30      40         50      60    70    80     90      100
         Start       0




                                                         NL
  FL Turnpike

                 1,000




                 2,000




                 3,000




 SW 42nd Ave 4,000                                            NL




                 5,000




                 6,000




   Citrus Blvd                                                     NL


                 7,000




                 8,000


                                                                                               Page 216
                                                   AECOM
                                                 (954) 745-7200
                                                   Sunrise, FL
                                                                                Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                Study Date : 10/21/2011
Speed Profile                                                                   Page No.   : 31
Run : SR 714_2-1-R017 Start Time: 12:27 (This is a Before Run)
Distance [Scale: 1 in. = 1000 feet]                          Speed (MPH)
                                  10   20   30      40       50      60    70    80     90      100
                8,000
          End




                9,000




               10,000




               11,000




               12,000




               13,000




               14,000




               15,000




               16,000


                                                                                             Page 217
                                                   AECOM
                                                 (954) 745-7200
                                                   Sunrise, FL
                                                                                 Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                 Study Date : 10/21/2011
Speed Profile                                                                    Page No.   : 32
Run : SR 714_2-1-R019 Start Time: 12:36 (This is a Before Run)
Distance [Scale: 1 in. = 1000 feet]                           Speed (MPH)
                                  10   20   30      40        50      60    70    80     90      100
         Start       0




  FL Turnpike                          NL

                 1,000




                 2,000




                 3,000




 SW 42nd Ave 4,000                                       NL




                 5,000




                 6,000




   Citrus Blvd                                             NL


                 7,000




                 8,000


                                                                                              Page 218
                                                   AECOM
                                                 (954) 745-7200
                                                   Sunrise, FL
                                                                                Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                Study Date : 10/21/2011
Speed Profile                                                                   Page No.   : 33
Run : SR 714_2-1-R019 Start Time: 12:36 (This is a Before Run)
Distance [Scale: 1 in. = 1000 feet]                          Speed (MPH)
                                  10   20   30      40       50      60    70    80     90      100
                8,000
          End




                9,000




               10,000




               11,000




               12,000




               13,000




               14,000




               15,000




               16,000


                                                                                             Page 219
                                                    AECOM
                                                  (954) 745-7200
                                                    Sunrise, FL
                                                                                 Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                 Study Date : 10/21/2011
Speed Profile                                                                    Page No.   : 34
Run : SR 714-WB-001 Start Time: 11:27 (This is a Before Run)
Distance [Scale: 1 in. = 1000 feet]                           Speed (MPH)
                                  10   20    30      40       50      60    70    80     90      100
         Start       0




  FL Turnpike                               NL

                 1,000




                 2,000




                 3,000




 SW 42nd Ave 4,000                                  NL




                 5,000




                 6,000




   Citrus Blvd                                                    NL


                 7,000




                 8,000


                                                                                              Page 220
                                                   AECOM
                                                 (954) 745-7200
                                                   Sunrise, FL
                                                                                Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                Study Date : 10/21/2011
Speed Profile                                                                   Page No.   : 35
Run : SR 714-WB-001 Start Time: 11:27 (This is a Before Run)
Distance [Scale: 1 in. = 1000 feet]                          Speed (MPH)
                                  10   20   30      40       50      60    70    80     90      100
                8,000
          End




                9,000




               10,000




               11,000




               12,000




               13,000




               14,000




               15,000




               16,000


                                                                                             Page 221
                                                        AECOM
                                                      (954) 745-7200
                                                        Sunrise, FL
                                                                                     Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                     Study Date : 10/21/2011
Speed Profile                                                                        Page No.   : 36
Run : SR 714-WB-002 Start Time: 11:43 (This is a Before Run)
Distance [Scale: 1 in. = 1000 feet]                               Speed (MPH)
                                  10   20        30      40       50      60    70    80     90      100
         Start       0




  FL Turnpike                               NL
                 1,000




                 2,000




                 3,000




 SW 42nd Ave 4,000
                                            NL




                 5,000




                 6,000




   Citrus Blvd                                                   NL


                 7,000




                 8,000


                                                                                                  Page 222
                                                   AECOM
                                                 (954) 745-7200
                                                   Sunrise, FL
                                                                                Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                Study Date : 10/21/2011
Speed Profile                                                                   Page No.   : 37
Run : SR 714-WB-002 Start Time: 11:43 (This is a Before Run)
Distance [Scale: 1 in. = 1000 feet]                          Speed (MPH)
                                  10   20   30      40       50      60    70    80     90      100
                8,000
          End




                9,000




               10,000




               11,000




               12,000




               13,000




               14,000




               15,000




               16,000


                                                                                             Page 223
                                                   AECOM
                                                 (954) 745-7200
                                                   Sunrise, FL
                                                                                Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                Study Date : 10/21/2011
Speed Profile                                                                   Page No.   : 38
Run : SR 714-WB-004 Start Time: 12:03 (This is a Before Run)
Distance [Scale: 1 in. = 1000 feet]                          Speed (MPH)
                                  10   20   30      40       50      60    70    80     90      100
         Start       0




                                                     NL
  FL Turnpike

                 1,000




                 2,000




                 3,000




                                                           NL
 SW 42nd Ave 4,000




                 5,000




                 6,000




   Citrus Blvd                                                   NL


                 7,000




                 8,000


                                                                                             Page 224
                                                   AECOM
                                                 (954) 745-7200
                                                   Sunrise, FL
                                                                                Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                Study Date : 10/21/2011
Speed Profile                                                                   Page No.   : 39
Run : SR 714-WB-004 Start Time: 12:03 (This is a Before Run)
Distance [Scale: 1 in. = 1000 feet]                          Speed (MPH)
                                  10   20   30      40       50      60    70    80     90      100
                8,000
          End




                9,000




               10,000




               11,000




               12,000




               13,000




               14,000




               15,000




               16,000


                                                                                             Page 225
                                                     AECOM
                                                (954) 745-7200
                                                     Sunrise, FL
                                                                                  Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                  Study Date : 10/21/2011
Time-Based Speed Profile                                                          Page No.   : 40
Run : SR 714_2-1-R001 Start Time:11:05 (This is a Before Run)

Time Into Run                                                  Speed (MPH)
Scale: 1 in. = 30 secs       10   20       30           40     50       60   70    80     90      100
                         0                      Start




                                           FL Turnpike
                    30




                    60




                                                  SW 42nd Ave
                    90




                   120




                                       Citrus Blvd


                   150



                                                                   End



                   180




                   210




                   240


                                                                                               Page 226
                                                 AECOM
                                               (954) 745-7200
                                                 Sunrise, FL
                                                                                      Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                      Study Date : 10/21/2011
Time-Based Speed Profile                                                              Page No.   : 41
Run : SR 714_2-1-R003 Start Time:11:17 (This is a Before Run)

Time Into Run                                                      Speed (MPH)
Scale: 1 in. = 30 secs       10   20      30          40           50       60   70    80     90      100
                         0                                 Start




                    30




                    60




                    90


                                        FL Turnpike




                   120




                   150


                                         SW 42nd Ave




                   180




                                                                   Citrus Blvd
                   210



                                                                       End


                   240


                                                                                                   Page 227
                                                  AECOM
                                               (954) 745-7200
                                                  Sunrise, FL
                                                                                  Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                  Study Date : 10/21/2011
Time-Based Speed Profile                                                          Page No.   : 42
Run : SR 714_2-1-R005 Start Time:11:26 (This is a Before Run)

Time Into Run                                                  Speed (MPH)
Scale: 1 in. = 30 secs       10   20      30          40       50       60   70    80     90      100
                         0                            Start




                    30




                    60




                                        FL Turnpike


                    90




                   120




                   150             SW 42nd Ave




                   180




                                                        Citrus Blvd

                   210



                                                                 End



                   240


                                                                                               Page 228
                                                 AECOM
                                               (954) 745-7200
                                                 Sunrise, FL
                                                                               Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                               Study Date : 10/21/2011
Time-Based Speed Profile                                                       Page No.   : 43
Run : SR 714_2-1-R007 Start Time:11:37 (This is a Before Run)

Time Into Run                                               Speed (MPH)
Scale: 1 in. = 30 secs       10   20      30       40       50       60   70    80     90      100
                         0                          Start



                                                  FL Turnpike



                    30




                    60
                                                            SW 42nd Ave




                    90



                                                            Citrus Blvd



                   120
                                                                   End




                   150




                   180




                   210




                   240


                                                                                            Page 229
                                                     AECOM
                                                (954) 745-7200
                                                      Sunrise, FL
                                                                                   Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                   Study Date : 10/21/2011
Time-Based Speed Profile                                                           Page No.   : 44
Run : SR 714_2-1-R009 Start Time:11:45 (This is a Before Run)

Time Into Run                                                   Speed (MPH)
Scale: 1 in. = 30 secs       10   20       30          40       50       60   70    80     90      100
                         0                              Start




                    30




                                       FL Turnpike


                    60




                    90




                                        SW 42nd Ave


                   120




                   150


                                        Citrus Blvd




                   180
                                                                    End




                   210




                   240


                                                                                                Page 230
                                                     AECOM
                                               (954) 745-7200
                                                     Sunrise, FL
                                                                                  Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                  Study Date : 10/21/2011
Time-Based Speed Profile                                                          Page No.   : 45
Run : SR 714_2-1-R011 Start Time:11:54 (This is a Before Run)

Time Into Run                                                  Speed (MPH)
Scale: 1 in. = 30 secs       10   20      30          40       50       60   70    80     90      100
                         0                            Start




                    30




                    60


                                       FL Turnpike




                    90




                   120

                                                     SW 42nd Ave




                   150




                   180                                  Citrus Blvd




                                                                   End

                   210




                   240


                                                                                               Page 231
                                                 AECOM
                                               (954) 745-7200
                                                  Sunrise, FL
                                                                                    Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                    Study Date : 10/21/2011
Time-Based Speed Profile                                                            Page No.   : 46
Run : SR 714_2-1-R015 Start Time:12:14 (This is a Before Run)

Time Into Run                                                   Speed (MPH)
Scale: 1 in. = 30 secs       10   20      30       40           50       60    70    80     90      100
                         0                              Start



                                                FL Turnpike


                    30




                    60


                                                            SW 42nd Ave




                    90




                                                                 Citrus Blvd

                   120


                                                                   End




                   150




                   180




                   210




                   240


                                                                                                 Page 232
                                                 AECOM
                                               (954) 745-7200
                                                 Sunrise, FL
                                                                                Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                Study Date : 10/21/2011
Time-Based Speed Profile                                                        Page No.   : 47
Run : SR 714_2-1-R017 Start Time:12:27 (This is a Before Run)

Time Into Run                                               Speed (MPH)
Scale: 1 in. = 30 secs       10   20      30      40        50       60    70    80     90      100
                         0                         Start



                                                      FL Turnpike



                    30




                    60
                                                           SW 42nd Ave




                    90



                                                             Citrus Blvd



                   120
                                                                    End




                   150




                   180




                   210




                   240


                                                                                             Page 233
                                                  AECOM
                                               (954) 745-7200
                                                  Sunrise, FL
                                                                                Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                Study Date : 10/21/2011
Time-Based Speed Profile                                                        Page No.   : 48
Run : SR 714_2-1-R019 Start Time:12:36 (This is a Before Run)

Time Into Run                                                Speed (MPH)
Scale: 1 in. = 30 secs       10   20      30        40       50       60   70    80     90      100
                         0                       Start




                    30




                    60




                    90




                                        FL Turnpike

                   120




                   150




                                                         SW 42nd Ave


                   180




                   210                                    Citrus Blvd




                                                            End

                   240


                                                                                             Page 234
                                                 AECOM
                                               (954) 745-7200
                                                 Sunrise, FL
                                                                                  Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                  Study Date : 10/21/2011
Time-Based Speed Profile                                                          Page No.   : 49
Run : SR 714-WB-001 Start Time:11:27 (This is a Before Run)

Time Into Run                                               Speed (MPH)
Scale: 1 in. = 30 secs       10   20      30       40       50       60      70    80     90      100
                         0                          Start




                    30                   FL Turnpike




                    60




                    90                           SW 42nd Ave




                   120


                                                               Citrus Blvd




                   150                                          End




                   180




                   210




                   240


                                                                                               Page 235
                                                     AECOM
                                                 (954) 745-7200
                                                     Sunrise, FL
                                                                                      Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                      Study Date : 10/21/2011
Time-Based Speed Profile                                                              Page No.   : 50
Run : SR 714-WB-002 Start Time:11:43 (This is a Before Run)

Time Into Run                                                      Speed (MPH)
Scale: 1 in. = 30 secs       10   20        30        40           50       60   70    80     90      100
                         0                                 Start




                    30




                    60



                                       FL Turnpike



                    90




                   120




                   150
                                   SW 42nd Ave




                   180



                                                               Citrus Blvd


                   210

                                                                       End




                   240


                                                                                                   Page 236
                                                 AECOM
                                               (954) 745-7200
                                                  Sunrise, FL
                                                                                 Study Name : SR714-WB-2
                                                                                 Study Date : 10/21/2011
Time-Based Speed Profile                                                         Page No.   : 51
Run : SR 714-WB-004 Start Time:12:03 (This is a Before Run)

Time Into Run                                               Speed (MPH)
Scale: 1 in. = 30 secs       10   20      30        40      50       60     70    80     90      100
                         0                      Start



                                                   FL Turnpike


                    30




                    60


                                                          SW 42nd Ave



                    90




                                                              Citrus Blvd
                   120




                                                           End


                   150




                   180




                   210




                   240


                                                                                              Page 237
               
    Appendix D  
        Signal Timing 
 
     




                         Page 238
Page 239
Page 240
Page 241
Page 242
Page 243
                  

            Appendix E  
    Right of Way Information  
         




                                 Page 244
Page 245
Page 246
Page 247
Page 248
Page 249
Page 250
Page 251
Page 252
Page 253
Page 254
Page 255
Page 256
Page 257
Page 258
Page 259
Page 260
Page 261
Page 262
W:\P360\ENG-AB\As-Built-P360-PD-700 Plan and Profiles.dwg, 2/5/2009 9:53:49 AM, DJC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        THIS DOCUMENT, TOGETHER WITH THE CONCEPTS AND DESIGNS PRESENTED HEREIN, AS AN INSTRUMENT OF SERVICE, IS INTENDED ONLY FOR THE SPECIFIC PURPOSE AND CLIENT FOR WHICH IT WAS PREPARED. REUSE OF AND IMPROPER RELIANCE ON THIS DOCUMENT WITHOUT WRITTEN AUTHORIZATION AND ADOPTION BY CAPTEC ENGINEERING, INC. SHALL BE WITHOUT LIABILITY TO CAPTEC ENGINEERING, INC.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (772) 692-4341
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Phone: (772) 692-4344




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Engineering Business
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FENCE TYPE A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Stuart, Florida 34994
                                                                                       L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          301 NW Flagler Ave
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               365+00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           No. EB-0007657
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             REF. FDOT INDEX NO. 451                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NORTH
                                                                                      P.I. Sta. = 19+59.74                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        P.I. Sta. = 14+00.31
                                                                                      P.C. Sta. = 16+84.06                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        P.C. Sta. = 11+16.29
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REMOVE EXIST. FENCE
                                                                                      P.T. Sta. = 22+35.18                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        P.T. Sta. = 16+84.06
                                                                                       = 4°8'00"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   = 4°15'30"
                                                                                      Dc = 0°45'00"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Dc = 0°45'00"                                                        CONST. FLARED END SECTION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Fax:
                                                                                      T = 275.68'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 T = 284.02'                                                              PER FDOT INDEX NO. 300




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S.R 714
                                                                                      L = 551.12'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 L = 567.77'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SEE INTERSECTION PLANS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Civil Engineering Professionals
                                                                                      R = 7639.44'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R = 7639.44'




                                                                                                                                                                                               PRC = 16+84.06




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PC = 11+16.29
                                                                                      E = NC                                                                                                                                                                      FENCE TYPE A                                                                                                                    E = NC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  REF. FDOT INDEX NO. 451




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               364+00
                                                              %                             28'
                                                                                            27 LF 18" RCP
                                                                                                                                                         PROP. R/W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROP. R/W
                                                                                            @0.50% 0.88%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   END WPCC CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           STA. 10+00




                                                                                                                                                   6:1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6:1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6:1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N 1028491.586




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6:1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6:1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DETECTOR ZONE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DETECTOR ZONE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DETECTOR ZONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 67.00 RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DRY RETENTION AREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9' x 60'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9' x 60'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9' x 60'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             KEY DITCH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 +53.74
                                                                                                                                                                      EL. 18.00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  19.00 (SEE INTERSECTION                                               6:1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E 877634.574                                                                                RIGHT OF WAY LINE
                                              MATCH LINE STA. 19+00




                                                                               A-23b                                                                                                                                                    28'             0.32%                                                                                     DRY DETENTION AREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   17.00 RT
                                                                                                                                                                 CONST. 6' CONC.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            18.00                      IMPROVEMENT PLANS AT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        27 LF 18" RCP @0.50%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROPERTY LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   +03.77
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S.R. 714 & C.R. 76A)
                                                                                                                                               6:1
                                                                              A-23                                                                                   SIDEWALK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6:1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EL. 18.00                                                               A-4b                                                                                 A-2b




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6:1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6:1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       95
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      93 'L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EXIST. STORM PIPE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            P4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             D P4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            F1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6:1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8" R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               363+00 6

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     P6 C
                                                19+00 C2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CP   0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EXIST. EDGE OF PAVEMENT
                                                                                                                                         18+00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           @0. .48%
                                                                                                                                                      22.10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 50% A-2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A
                                                                                                                                              C                                      17+00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HORZ. SCALE: AS SHOWN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VERT. SCALE: AS SHOWN
                                                                                                                                              L CONST.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXIST. WATER MAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        16+00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                700 PP1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5-7-04
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         15+00 A-4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              700
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HLT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HLT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                JWC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               14+00C1                                            13+00                                                                                                                                                                                             20.50                                                                                                                                                                                              EXIST. UTILITY VALVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12+00                                                                      11+00                                                                                                       10+00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROP. E.O.P.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         L CONST.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    19.90                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C.R 76A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           417+00                            416+00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXIST. FIRE HYDRANT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 88'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S00°00'00"E 418+00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DATE:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DRAWN BY:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DESIGNED BY:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CHECKED BY:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROJECT No.:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CADD FILE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROP. TYPE F




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V4
                                                                                                                17.00 LT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CURB & GUTTTER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EXIST. BURIED TELEPHONE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8
                                                                                                                +10.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   44'                                                                        A-3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1.41%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXIST. FORCE MAIN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               29.00 LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   46 LF 18" RCPE @0.33%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               +50.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            41.00 LT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               58'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.31%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            +00.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          P6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               60 LF 14"x23" RCPE @0.25%                                    A-1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXIST. OVERHEAD TELEPHONE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                362+005
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXIST. OVERHEAD ELECTRIC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXIST. OVERHEAD CABLE TV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ZONE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DETECTOR ZONE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DETECTOR ZONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FENCE TYPE A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        41.05 LT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               9' x 60'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9' x 60'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9' x 60'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               REF. FDOT INDEX NO. 451




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S.RDETECTOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXIST. BURIED CABLE TV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        +86.76




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            714
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     91.42 LT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           APPROVED FOR CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     +36.87
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXIST. GAS MAIN
                                                                                                                                         PROP. R/W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROP. R/W                                   CONST. 20" GAS MAIN CASING (SEE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TECHNICAL SPECIAL PROVISIONS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EXIST. WOOD POWER POLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AND DETAILS SHEET D-4)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CONNECT TO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EXIST. WOOD POWER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EXIST. FENCE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    POLE W/LIGHT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                361+00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             100% PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        90% PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            60% PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BID SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       POSSIBLE UTILITY CONFLICT

                                                                                                                                                   BYPASS DITCH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONST. FLARED END SECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROP. TYPE "F" CURB AND GUTTER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       JWC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             JWC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EBB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           KSL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RJH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BY
                                                                                                                                                   (BY OTHERS)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PER FDOT INDEX NO. 300

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROP. STORM PIPE AND FLOW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           02/01/07
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        09/01/06




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2/15/06
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       11/4/05
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9/9/05
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DIRECTION


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROP. TRAVELWAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                360+00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A-25       PROP. STRUCTURE NUMBER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ADJUST ALL SCALED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SOLID BAR IS EQUAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VERIFICATION



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ORIGINAL DRAWING,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TO ONE INCH ON



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ACCORDINGLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NOTE: CONTRACTOR SHALL POTHOLE                                                             PROP. DITCH BOTTOM INLET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DIMENSIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SCALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EXISTING 20" GAS MAIN TO VERIFY
                                                                                 A-23       Sta. 18+95 (18.25' Rt.)                                                                                                                     A-4       Sta. 14+95 (18.25' Rt.)                                             A-3       Sta. 14+95 (28.08' Lt.)                                                                                                            A-2           Sta. 12+50 (18.25' Rt.)                                                    A-1           Sta. 12+50 (42.25' Lt.)                                                                                                                                           LOCATION AND CONFLICTS.                                                                    PROP. TYPE P5 CURB INLET
                                             40                                   Const. Curb Inlet Type P-5                                                                    HIGH POINT ELEV = 22.10                                 Const. Curb Inlet Type P-5                                                    Const. Curb Inlet Type P-5                                                                                                                       Const. Curb Inlet Type P-6                                                               Const. Curb Inlet Type P-6                                                                                                     40
                                                                                  Fdot Index Nos. 200, 201 & 211                                                               HIGH POINT STA = 17+40.40                                Fdot Index Nos. 200, 201 & 211                                                Fdot Index Nos. 200, 201 & 211                                                                                                                   Fdot Index Nos. 200, 201 & 211                                                           Fdot Index Nos. 200, 201 & 211
                                                                                  EOP @ Str. El. = 21.42                                                                                                                                EOP @ Str. El. = 20.69                                                        EOP @ Str. El. = 20.49                                                                      LOW POINT ELEV = 19.90                               EOP @ Str. El. = 19.56                                                                   EOP @ Str. El. = 19.08                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROP. TYPE P6 CURB INLET
                                                                                                                                                                                   PVI STA = 16+73.44




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                  Inv. El. = 14.66                                                                                                                                      Inv. El. = 16.35 (E)                                                          Inv. El. = 16.50                                                                            LOW POINT STA = 12+50                                Inv. El. = 15.20 (E & W)                                                                 Inv. El. = 15.35
                                                                                                                                                                                    PVI ELEV = 22.43                                    Inv. El. = 15.00 (W)                                                                                                                                                        PVI STA = 13+03.84                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROP. MANHOLE
                                             36                                                                                                                                        A.D. = -1.09                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PVI ELEV = 19.52                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          36
                                                                                                                                                                                       K = 275.56                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A-2b      Sta. 13+40 (45.00' Rt.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A.D. = 1.16                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROP. MITERED END
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Const. Ditch Bottom Inlet Type E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SECTION
                                                                               A-23b      Sta. 18+95 (45.00' Rt.)                                                                         300.00' VC                                                                                          A-4b        Sta. 14+95 (45.00' Rt.)                                                                                       K = 258.89                                                                                                             Fdot Index No. 232
                                                                                Const. Ditch Bottom Inlet Type E                                                                                                                                                                                Const. Ditch Bottom Inlet Type E                                                                                         300.00' VC                                                                                                            Grate El. = 18.00
                                             32                                 Fdot Index No. 232                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             32                                                                                                                                      PROP. SWALE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WESTERN PALM CITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Fdot Index No. 232                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Inv. El. = 14.72




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PLAN AND PROFILE
                                                                                Grate El. = 18.00                                                                               HIGH POINT ELEV = 22.10                                                                                         Grate El. = 18.00
                                                                                                            18+23.44




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MARTIN COUNTY, FLORIDA
                                                                                Inv. El. = 14.52                                                                                                                                                                                                Inv. El. = 14.86
                                                                                                                                 21.98




                                                                                                                                                                               HIGH POINT STA = 17+40.40                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROP. HIGH POINT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BVCS: 15+23.44




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOW POINT ELEV = 19.90
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EVCS: 14+53.84




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PVI ELEV = 20.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PVI STA = 10+40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BVCE: 21.25
                                                                                                         18+23.44




                                                                                                                                                                                   PVI STA = 16+73.44                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOW POINT STA = 12+50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EVCE: 20.70




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BVCS: 11+53.84
                                                                                                                             21.98




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          13.00
                                             28                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                28




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BVCE: 20.08
                                                                                                                          EVCE:




                                                                                                                                                                                    PVI ELEV = 22.43                                                                                                                                                                                                                PVI STA = 13+03.84                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROP. ELEVATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CORRIDOR
                                                                                                      EVCS:




                                                                                                                                                                                       A.D. = -1.09                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PVI ELEV = 19.52
                                                                                                                       EVCE:
                                                                                                   EVCS:




                                                                                                                                                                                       K = 275.56                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A.D. = 1.16                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       +70.00       PROP. STATION AND OFFSET
                                                                                                                                                                                          300.00' VC                                                                                                                                                                                                                    K = 258.89                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8.51' RT.
                                             24                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          300.00' VC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LIMITS OF DITCH FILL


                                                                              A-23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RUBBLE RIPRAP
                                             20                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                20
                                                                              A-23b                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A-3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A-4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A-2b                                                              A-2                                                                        PROPOSED CASING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EXIST. GRADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A-4b                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (SEE SPECIFICATIONS)
                                             16                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             93 LF 18" RCP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                46 LF 18" RCP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ELEV.     ELEVATION
                                                                                  27 LF 18" RCP                                                                                                                                                                 27 LF 18" RCP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EOP       EDGE OF PAVEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 60 LF 14"x23"
                                             12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RCPE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12                                                                                                                            EOS       EDGE OF SHOULDER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOB       TOB OF BANK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOS       TOE OF SLOPE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Joseph W. Capra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R/W       RIGHT-OF-WAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   301 N.W. Flagler Ave.
                                              8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8                                  RECORD DRAWING                                                                        C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CENTERLINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BASELINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Stuart, Florida 34994
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P.E. No. 37638

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PGL       PROFILE GRADE LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I HEREBY CERTIFY THAT THE AS-BUILT INFORMATION SHOWN HEREON IS TRUE AND                                       RT        RIGHT
                                              4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4          CORRECT TO THE BEST OF MY KNOWLEDGE AND BELIEF.                                                               LT        LEFT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2/18/2008                              NAME:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DATE OF FIELD SURVEY                        WM. R. VAN CAMPEN
                                                                      21.75




                                                                                           21.90




                                                                                                                                           22.04


                                                                                                                                                         22.08


                                                                                                                                                                     22.10


                                                                                                                                                                             22.10


                                                                                                                                                                                       22.07


                                                                                                                                                                                                                22.03


                                                                                                                                                                                                                        21.95


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                21.86


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              21.75


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        21.61


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    21.45


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             21.26


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              21.06




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  20.67


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       20.49


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       20.33


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   20.20


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              20.09


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         20.01


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        19.95


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   19.91


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               19.90


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              19.91


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         19.95


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        20.01


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 20.09




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         20.28




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     20.46



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FLORIDA PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYOR NO. 2424
                                              0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                +00                                                               18+00                                              17+00                                              16+00                                                           15+00                                                                  14+00                                             13+00                                                12+00                                                                      11+00                                                                                                       10+00                                                     ASSOCIATED LAND SURVEYORS, INC.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Printed Date:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4152 W. BLUE HERON BLVD. SUITE 121                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    JOB No.:   700
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NOTE: ALL ELEVATIONS SHOWN HEREIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RIVIERA BEACH, FLORIDA 33404                                                   REFERENCE DATUM NGVD, 1929.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SHEET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PHONE: (561) 848-2102 FAX: (561) 844-9659 L.B. NO. 7344 EMAIL: als@alssurvey.net
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PP25                                      OF                                                   25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Page 263
Page 264
Page 265
Page 266
Page 267
Page 268
Page 269
Page 270
Page 271
Page 272
Page 273
Page 274
                      

             Appendix F  
    Martin County LOS Report (Partial)
     and Peak Season  Factors Table
        




                                         Page 275
                                                                                                                                    Martin County 2010 Roadway Level of Service Inventory Report

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Peak                      2010
                                                                                                                                                                         Generalized                                                         Directional                     2010          Avg. Annual
                                                                                                                                                                                       2006     2007     2008     2009     2010      Hour                   Peak Hour
      Road Name                                             From                                      To                                              Type                 Service                                                           Distribution                 Generalized        Growth
                                                                                                                                                                                       AADT     AADT     AADT     AADT     AADT     Factor                  Directional
                                                                                                                                                                          Capacity                                                               D100                        LOS              Rate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     K100                    Volume

      SR-710 (Warfield Blvd)                                Van Buren                                 CR-726 (Citrus)                         Class I: 4-Ln Divided         1810       11,022   10,698   8,982    9,914    9,843    0.090       0.560          496            C                 0.5%


                                                                                                                                             Transitional 4-Ln Uninter
      SR-710 (Warfield Blvd)                                CR-726                                    SR-76 (Kanner)                                                        2420       11,697   11,022   9,094    9,648    8,873    0.090       0.560          447            A/B               0.5%
                                                                                                                                                  /Divided Flow

                                                                                                                                             Transitional 2-Ln Uninter
      SR-710 (Warfield Blvd)                                SR-76                                     Palm Beach County                                                     800        7,682    6,514    5,604    6,353    6,125    0.090       0.590          325           A/B                0.5%
                                                                                                                                                 /Undivided Flow

                                                                                                                                             Transitional 2-Ln Uninter
      SR-714 (Martin Hwy)                                   I-95                                      CR-76A (Citrus)                                                       1120       10,950   11,031   10,238   9,879    9,756    0.100       0.560          546            C                 0.5%
                                                                                                                                                 /Undivided Flow


      SR-714 (Martin Hwy)                                   CR-76A (Citrus)                           Florida's Turnpike                      Class I: 2-Ln Divided         925        14,645   14,660   14,003   15,608   15,816   0.100       0.580          917            D                 1.9%


      SR-714 (Martin Downs Blvd)                            Florida's Turnpike                        CR-713                                  Class I: 4-Ln Divided         1960       20,243   19,548   18,524   19,094   19,217   0.100       0.520          999           A/B                0.5%


      SR-714 (Martin Downs Blvd)                            CR-713                                    Matheson Ave                            Class I: 4-Ln Divided         1960       30,456   31,614   29,146   29,030   28,847   0.100       0.580         1,673           C                 0.5%


      SR-714 (Martin Downs Blvd)                            Matheson Ave                              Mapp Rd                                 Class I: 4-Ln Divided         1960       30,948   34,089   29,318   29,213   30,403   0.100       0.590         1,794           C                 0.5%


      SR-714 (Palm City Bridge)                             Mapp Rd                                   SR-76                                   Class I: 4-Ln Divided         1960       47,008   46,465   44,384   43,396   43,542   0.100       0.610         1,794           C                 0.5%


      SR-714 (Monterey Rd)                                  SR-76                                     Willoughby Blvd                         Class II: 4-Ln Divided        1770       28,975   26,624   27,235   26,368   26,599   0.090       0.530         1,269           C                 0.5%


      SR-714 (Monterey Rd)                                  Willoughby Blvd                           Monterey Extension                      Class II: 4-Ln Divided        1770       26,833   25,537   24,620   24,592   24,774   0.090       0.540         1,204           C                 0.5%


      SR-714 (Monterey Rd)                                  Monterey Extension                        SR-5                                    Class II: 4-Ln Divided        1770       18,351   16,557   16,863   16,880   17,190   0.090       0.560          866            C                 0.5%


      SR-714 (Monterey Rd)                                  SR-5                                      CR-A1A                                  Class I: 4-Ln Divided         1960       24,073   20,516   21,480   22,254   23,000   0.090       0.520         1,076          A/B                0.5%


      SR-714 (Monterey Rd)                                  CR-A1A                                    SR-A1A                                  Class I: 4-Ln Divided         1960       13,531   13,659   12,881   14,146   15,336   0.110       0.530          894           A/B                3.2%


      SR-732 (Jensen Beach Blvd)                            SR-5                                      Green River Pkwy                        Class II: 4-Ln Divided        1770       28,144   27,345   25,736   24,851   25,406   0.090       0.510         1,166           C                 0.5%


      SR-732 (Jensen Beach Blvd)                            Green River Pkwy                          CR-723                                  Class I: 4-Ln Divided         1960       25,789   20,441   23,868   23,018   25,113   0.090       0.520         1,175          A/B                0.5%


                                                                                                                                             2-Ln Uninter /Undivided
      SR-732 (Causeway Blvd)                                CR-707                                    SR-A1A                                                                1140       12,581   13,082   11,820   11,678   12,547   0.120       0.510          768            C                 0.5%
                                                                                                                                                      Flow

                                                                                                                                           Uninterrupted Rural Hwy: 2-
      SR-76 (Kanner Hwy)                                    SR-15                                     SR-710                                                                1100       2,374    2,048    1,604    1,523    1,761    0.090       0.620           98           A/B                0.5%
                                                                                                                                                  Ln Undivided

                                                                                                                                           Uninterrupted Rural Hwy: 2-
      SR-76 (Kanner Hwy)                                    SR-710                                    CR-708                                                                1100       4,720    3,717    2,899    2,666    3,160    0.090       0.540          154           A/B                0.5%
                                                                                                                                                  Ln Undivided

                                                                                                                                             Transitional 2-Ln Uninter
      SR-76 (Kanner Hwy)                                    CR-708                                    CR-711/CR-76A                                                         1120       3,453    3,232    2,857    2,990    2,958    0.100       0.610          180           A/B                0.5%
                                                                                                                                                 /Undivided Flow


      SR-76 (Kanner Hwy)                                    CR-711/CR76A                              Locks Rd                               Class I: 2-Ln Undivided        880        15,583   12,639   11,605   11,399   11,879   0.120       0.600          855            D                 0.5%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8 of 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Effective: March 07, 2011
Bold Italic peak hour directional volumes have been assumed or ajusted to account for recently constructed or committed projects.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Page 276
Transportation Data Management System                                                                            Page 1 of 1




                      County of Martin
                                                                                                  Help
                                                    Transportation Data Management System


                                Manage Seasonal Factors
                                   Back        Reload Values           Save Values


                                             Delete This Set        View in Excel


                                                    Edit Seasonal Factor

                          Group    145

               Functional Class    Major Arterial

                      From Year:     2010                To Year:    2010

                         Sun         Mon        Tue        Wed       Thu       Fri          Sat          Month

                Jan     1.520       0.970       0.900      0.880    0.890     0.980     1.230            1.020

                Feb     1.380       0.940       0.900      0.860    0.860     0.860     1.140            0.960

                Mar     1.380       0.900       0.870      0.850    0.850     0.870     1.100            0.950

                Apr     1.470       0.940       0.890      0.860    0.880     0.870     1.140            0.970

                May     1.430       0.970       0.870      0.850    0.850     0.830     1.150            0.960

                Jun     1.530       0.950       0.930      0.910    0.890     0.900     1.200            1.010

                Jul     1.590       1.090       0.970      0.950    0.940     0.950     1.280            1.070

                Aug     1.590       0.970       0.960      0.940    0.940     0.900     1.220            1.040

                Sep     1.560       1.070       0.920      0.920    0.900     0.870     1.230            1.030

                Oct     1.490       0.920       0.890      0.870    0.880     0.860     1.190            0.980

                Nov     1.480       0.920       0.880      0.880    1.040     0.920     1.180            1.010

                Dec     1.470       0.970       0.950      0.930    0.920     0.940     1.260            1.030

                Day     1.490       0.960       0.910      0.890    0.900     0.890     1.190

                                Quick-set all values in a column with these fields below:




                         Set         Set        Set        Set       Set       Set          Set




                                                                                                                               Page 277
http://www.ms2soft.com/tcds/admin/f_factoredit.asp?g=145&t=Major Arterial&y=2010                                  9/26/2011
                   

          Appendix G  
    Operational Analysis Outputs 
                   
          




                                    Page 278
                                                                                                                                              Page 1 of 2




               ARTPLAN 2009 Conceptual Planning Analysis
                                                                Project Information
Analyst                    AECOM                              Arterial Name            SR 714        Study Period              K100
                                                                                       East of FL
Date Prepared              10/28/2011 2:28:00 PM              From                                   Modal Analysis            Auto Only
                                                                                       Turnpike

Agency                     Martin County                      To                       Citru Blvd    Program                   ARTPLAN 2009

Area Type                  Other Urbanized                    Peak Direction           Westbound     Version Date              12/12/10

Arterial Class                                            1

File Name                 C:\Documents and Settings\gastrightj\Local Settings\Temp\preview.xml

User Notes                Existing



                                                                       Arterial Data
K                                                0.1 PHF                                             0.9 Control Type                                   Actuated

D                                                0.58 % Heavy Vehicles                                 6 Base Sat. Flow Rate                               1950



                                         Automobile Intersection and Segment Data
                                                       #
                            INT      %    %     Left          LT        Right                       SEG
         Cycle Thru Arr.                              Left         Left                   Hourly               Median
                             #      Left Right Turn        Storage       Turn Length AADT            #     FFS
Segment Length g/C Type                               Turn         g/C                     Vol.                 Type
                         Dir.Lanes Turns Turns Lanes       Length       Lanes                    Dir.Lanes
   #                                                 Lanes
1 (to FL
                 160 0.35            3       1      45             9   Yes     1        240 0.25    Yes      1400 16100    934                1    50      None
Turnpike)
2 (to
SW42             130 0.69            3       1        1            6   Yes     1        150 0.25    Yes      2670 16100    934                1    50      None
Ave)
3 (to
Citru            130 0.56            4       1      18         29      Yes     1        285 0.25    Yes      3267 16100    934                1    50      None
Blvd)



                                                                   Automobile LOS
                                Thru Mvmt           Adj. Sat.                Control        Int. Approach                             Speed        Segment
        Segment #               Flow Rate          Flow Rate           v/c    Delay              LOS             Queue Ratio          (mph)          LOS

1 (to FL Turnpike)                           0                     0
2 (to SW42 Ave)                              0                     0
3 (to Citru Blvd)                            0                     0

    Arterial                Weighted                       FFS                     Threshold
                 1.3896                                                                                     Auto Speed                Auto LOS
    Length                    g/C                         Delay                      Delay




                                                                                                                                                                   Page 279
file://C:\Documents and Settings\gastrightj\Local Settings\Temp\preview.xml                                                                       11/7/2011
                                                                                                                           Page 2 of 2



                                             Automobile Service Volumes
Note: The maximum normally acceptable directional service volume for LOS E in Florida for this facility type and area type is 1000
veh/h/ln.
                                      A                     B                     C                     D                     E
           Lanes                                                  Hourly Volume In Peak Direction
             1
             2
             3
             4
             *
           Lanes                                                 Hourly Volume In Both Directions
             2
             4
             6
             8
             *
           Lanes                                                    Annual Average Daily Traffic
             2
             4
             6
             8
             *

* Service Volumes for the specific facility being analyzed, based on # of lanes from the intersection and segment data screens.
** Cannot be achieved based on input data provided.
*** Not applicable for that level of service letter grade. See generalized tables notes for more details.
# Under the given conditions, left turn lane storage is highly likely to overflow. The number of directional thru lanes should be
reduced accordingly.
## Facility weighted g/C exceeds normally acceptable upper range (0.5); verify that g/C inputs are correct.
### Intersection capacity (ies) are exceeded for the full hour; an operational level analysis tool is more appropriate for this situation.




                                                                                                                                             Page 280
file://C:\Documents and Settings\gastrightj\Local Settings\Temp\preview.xml                                                 11/7/2011
                                                                                                                                              Page 1 of 2




               ARTPLAN 2009 Conceptual Planning Analysis
                                                                Project Information
Analyst                    AECOM                              Arterial Name            SR 714        Study Period              K100
                                                                                       East of FL
Date Prepared              10/28/2011 2:28:00 PM              From                                   Modal Analysis            Auto Only
                                                                                       Turnpike

Agency                     Martin County                      To                       Citru Blvd    Program                   ARTPLAN 2009

Area Type                  Other Urbanized                    Peak Direction           Westbound     Version Date              12/12/10

Arterial Class                                            1

File Name                 C:\Documents and Settings\gastrightj\Local Settings\Temp\preview.xml

User Notes                2021



                                                                       Arterial Data
K                                                0.1 PHF                                             0.9 Control Type                                   Actuated

D                                                0.58 % Heavy Vehicles                                 6 Base Sat. Flow Rate                               1950



                                      Automobile Intersection and Segment Data
                                                       #
                            INT      %    %     Left          LT        Right                       SEG
         Cycle Thru Arr.                              Left         Left                   Hourly               Median
                             #      Left Right Turn        Storage       Turn Length AADT            #     FFS
Segment Length g/C Type                               Turn         g/C                     Vol.                 Type
                         Dir.Lanes Turns Turns Lanes       Length       Lanes                    Dir.Lanes
   #                                                 Lanes
1 (to FL
                 160 0.35         3          2      45             9   Yes     1        240 0.25    Yes      1400 19244   1116                2    50      None
Turnpike)
2 (to
SW42             130 0.69         3          1        1            6   Yes     1        150 0.25    Yes      3267 19244   1116                1    50      None
Ave)
3 (to
Citru            130 0.56         4          1      18         29      Yes     1        285 0.25    Yes      2670 19244   1116                1    50      None
Blvd)



                                                                   Automobile LOS
                                 Thru Mvmt          Adj. Sat.                Control        Int. Approach                             Speed        Segment
        Segment #                Flow Rate         Flow Rate           v/c    Delay              LOS             Queue Ratio          (mph)          LOS

1 (to FL Turnpike)                           0                     0
2 (to SW42 Ave)                              0                     0
3 (to Citru Blvd)                            0                     0

    Arterial                Weighted                       FFS                     Threshold
                 1.3896                                                                                     Auto Speed                Auto LOS
    Length                    g/C                         Delay                      Delay




                                                                                                                                                                   Page 281
file://C:\Documents and Settings\gastrightj\Local Settings\Temp\preview.xml                                                                       11/7/2011
                                                                                                                           Page 2 of 2



                                             Automobile Service Volumes
Note: The maximum normally acceptable directional service volume for LOS E in Florida for this facility type and area type is 1000
veh/h/ln.
                                      A                     B                     C                     D                     E
           Lanes                                                  Hourly Volume In Peak Direction
             1
             2
             3
             4
             *
           Lanes                                                 Hourly Volume In Both Directions
             2
             4
             6
             8
             *
           Lanes                                                    Annual Average Daily Traffic
             2
             4
             6
             8
             *

* Service Volumes for the specific facility being analyzed, based on # of lanes from the intersection and segment data screens.
** Cannot be achieved based on input data provided.
*** Not applicable for that level of service letter grade. See generalized tables notes for more details.
# Under the given conditions, left turn lane storage is highly likely to overflow. The number of directional thru lanes should be
reduced accordingly.
## Facility weighted g/C exceeds normally acceptable upper range (0.5); verify that g/C inputs are correct.
### Intersection capacity (ies) are exceeded for the full hour; an operational level analysis tool is more appropriate for this situation.




                                                                                                                                             Page 282
file://C:\Documents and Settings\gastrightj\Local Settings\Temp\preview.xml                                                 11/7/2011
                                                                                                                                                   Page 1 of 2




               ARTPLAN 2009 Conceptual Planning Analysis
                                                                   Project Information
Analyst                    AECOM                                 Arterial Name             SR 714            Study Period           K100
                                                                                           East of FL
Date Prepared              10/28/2011 2:28:00 PM                 From                                        Modal Analysis         Auto Only
                                                                                           Turnpike

Agency                     Martin County                         To                        Citru Blvd        Program                ARTPLAN 2009

Area Type                  Other Urbanized                       Peak Direction            Westbound         Version Date           12/12/10

Arterial Class                                               1

File Name                 C:\Documents and Settings\gastrightj\Local Settings\Temp\preview.xml

User Notes                2031



                                                                          Arterial Data
K                                                    0.1 PHF                                                 0.9 Control Type                                Actuated

D                                                    0.58 % Heavy Vehicles                                       6 Base Sat. Flow Rate                          1950



                                      Automobile Intersection and Segment Data
                                                       #
                            INT      %    %     Left          LT        Right                       SEG
         Cycle Thru Arr.                              Left         Left                   Hourly               Median
                             #      Left Right Turn        Storage       Turn Length AADT            #     FFS
Segment Length g/C Type                               Turn         g/C                     Vol.                 Type
                         Dir.Lanes Turns Turns Lanes       Length       Lanes                    Dir.Lanes
   #                                                 Lanes
1 (to FL
                 160 0.35         3              2      45            9   Yes       1       240 0.25        Yes     1400 23003    1334             2    50      None
Turnpike)
2 (to
SW42             130 0.69         3              1       1            6   Yes       1       150 0.25        Yes     3267 23003    1334             1    50      None
Ave)
3 (to
Citru            130 0.56         4              1      18        29      Yes       1       285 0.25        Yes     2670 23003    1334             1    50      None
Blvd)



                                                                      Automobile LOS
                                 Thru Mvmt             Adj. Sat.                  Control        Int. Approach                             Speed        Segment
        Segment #                Flow Rate            Flow Rate           v/c      Delay              LOS               Queue Ratio        (mph)          LOS

1 (to FL Turnpike)                         682                   3104     0.628         44.17                       D                 #     14.23                  F
2 (to SW42 Ave)                        1378                      1667     1.198     117.65                          F             0.07      13.06                  F
3 (to Citru Blvd)                          786                   1192     1.177     100.45                          F             0.87      12.63                  F

    Arterial                Weighted                          FFS                       Threshold
                 1.3896                      0.49                          281.72                       143.55    Auto Speed     ###       Auto LOS          ###
    Length                    g/C                            Delay                        Delay




                                                                                                                                                                        Page 283
file://C:\Documents and Settings\gastrightj\Local Settings\Temp\preview.xml                                                                            11/7/2011
                                                                                                                           Page 2 of 2



                                             Automobile Service Volumes
Note: The maximum normally acceptable directional service volume for LOS E in Florida for this facility type and area type is 1000
veh/h/ln.
                                      A                     B                     C                     D                     E
           Lanes                                                  Hourly Volume In Peak Direction
             1                       **                    **                    660                  1100                  1190
             2                       **                    **                   1360                  2210                  2360
             3                       **                    **                   2090                  3350                  3560
             4                       **                    **                   2810                  4490                  4770
             *                       **                    **                    780                  1120                  1240
           Lanes                                                 Hourly Volume In Both Directions
             2                       **                    **                   1140                  1900                  2060
             4                       **                    **                   2350                  3820                  4070
             6                       **                    **                   3610                  5780                  6140
             8                       **                    **                   4850                  7750                  8230
             *                       **                    **                   1350                  1940                  2140
           Lanes                                                    Annual Average Daily Traffic
             2                       **                    **                  11400                  19000                 20600
             4                       **                    **                  23500                  38200                 40700
             6                       **                    **                  36100                  57800                 61400
             8                       **                    **                  48500                  77500                 82300
             *                       **                    **                  13500                  19400                 21400

* Service Volumes for the specific facility being analyzed, based on # of lanes from the intersection and segment data screens.
** Cannot be achieved based on input data provided.
*** Not applicable for that level of service letter grade. See generalized tables notes for more details.
# Under the given conditions, left turn lane storage is highly likely to overflow. The number of directional thru lanes should be
reduced accordingly.
## Facility weighted g/C exceeds normally acceptable upper range (0.5); verify that g/C inputs are correct.
### Intersection capacity (ies) are exceeded for the full hour; an operational level analysis tool is more appropriate for this situation.




                                                                                                                                             Page 284
file://C:\Documents and Settings\gastrightj\Local Settings\Temp\preview.xml                                                 11/7/2011
1: SR 714 & SW Citrus Blvd                                                                          AM Peak - Existing
Queues


Lane Group                    EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL        WBT     WBR     NBL    NBT    NBR      SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)           63     515       79     130        389     450      60     49    266     438    100      151
v/c Ratio                     0.30     0.86    0.13    0.47       0.57    0.68    0.17   0.33   0.72     0.92   0.30    0.48
Control Delay                 31.1     53.1    17.9    50.9       45.1    38.4    42.3   61.6   18.3     70.6   51.0    42.4
Queue Delay                    0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0        0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0
Total Delay                   31.1     53.1    17.9    50.9       45.1    38.4    42.3   61.6   18.3     70.6   51.0    42.4
Queue Length 50th (ft)          34     392       25      78        243     211      39     40       2    353      79      91
Queue Length 95th (ft)          64    #537       56     137        352     324      77     74     62    #537    122      144
Internal Link Dist (ft)               3642                        2582                    586                    413
Turn Bay Length (ft)           420              420      285               365     240           575     365             365
Base Capacity (vph)           225     601      591      311       687     663     401    209    412     475     415     383
Starvation Cap Reductn           0       0        0        0         0       0       0      0      0       0       0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0       0        0        0         0       0       0      0      0       0       0       0
Storage Cap Reductn              0       0        0        0         0       0       0      0      0       0       0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.28    0.86     0.13     0.42      0.57    0.68    0.15   0.23   0.65    0.92    0.24    0.39
Intersection Summary
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.




11/6/2011                                                                                                  Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                       Page 1




                                                                                                                                Page 285
1: SR 714 & SW Citrus Blvd                                                                                     AM Peak - Existing
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis


Movement                            EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR        NBL      NBT      NBR       SBL      SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        48       391       60       88      263      304        47       38      207      345        79     119
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1700      1700     1900     1900     1900     1900      1900     1900     1900     1700      1700     1700
Total Lost time (s)                6.0       6.2      6.2      6.0      6.2      6.2       6.0      6.4      6.4       6.0      6.4      6.4
Lane Util. Factor                 1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00
Frt                               1.00      1.00     0.85     1.00     1.00     0.85      1.00     1.00     0.85     1.00      1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95      1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1524      1604     1524     1703     1792     1524      1770     1863     1583     1583      1667     1417
Flt Permitted                     0.22      1.00     1.00     0.30     1.00     1.00      0.00     1.00     1.00     0.00      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  358     1604     1524       546    1792     1524          0    1863     1583          0    1667     1417
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.82      0.82     0.82     0.73     0.73     0.73      0.84     0.84     0.84     0.85      0.85     0.85
Growth Factor (vph)             108%      108%     108%     108%     108%     108%      108%     108%     108%     108%      108%     108%
Adj. Flow (vph)                     63       515       79      130      389      450        60       49      266      438       100     151
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0         0       21        0        0       81         0        0     240          0        0       32
Lane Group Flow (vph)               63      515        58     130      389      369         60       49       26      438      100      119
Heavy Vehicles (%)                 6%        6%       6%       6%       6%       6%        2%       2%       2%       2%        2%       2%
Turn Type                       pm+pt              Perm     pm+pt             Perm      pm+pt             Perm     pm+pt              Perm
Protected Phases                     1        6                  5       2                   7       4                   3       8
Permitted Phases                     6                  6        2                 2         4                 4         8                8
Actuated Green, G (s)            46.3      46.3     46.3     47.6     47.4     47.4      24.7     11.6     11.6      39.0     25.9     25.9
Effective Green, g (s)           46.3      46.3     46.3     47.6     47.4     47.4      24.7     11.6     11.6      39.0     25.9     25.9
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.36      0.36     0.36     0.37     0.36     0.36      0.19     0.09     0.09      0.30     0.20     0.20
Clearance Time (s)                 6.0       6.2      6.2      6.0      6.2      6.2       6.0      6.4      6.4       6.0      6.4     6.4
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      5.0      5.0       3.0     5.0      5.0        4.0     4.0      4.0       4.0      4.0      4.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                194       571      543      276      653      556       336      166      141       475      332     282
v/s Ratio Prot                    0.02    c0.32               0.03    0.22                0.03   c0.03              c0.28     0.06
v/s Ratio Perm                   0.10               0.04     0.14             c0.24                        0.02                        0.08
v/c Ratio                         0.32     0.90     0.11      0.47    0.60     0.66      0.18     0.30     0.18      0.92     0.30     0.42
Uniform Delay, d1                 30.2     39.7     28.0      42.2    33.5     34.6      44.1     55.4     54.8      44.0     44.3     45.5
Progression Factor                1.00     1.00     1.00      1.26    1.26     1.33      1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              1.0     20.0      0.4       1.1     3.6      5.5       0.3      1.4      0.8      23.7      0.7      1.4
Delay (s)                         31.2     59.7     28.4      54.2    45.6     51.7      44.5     56.7     55.6      67.8     45.0     46.9
Level of Service                     C        E        C         D       D        D         D        E        E         E        D        D
Approach Delay (s)                         53.2                       49.6                        54.0                        59.9
Approach LOS                                  D                          D                           D                           E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            53.7        HCM Level of Service                         D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.79
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           130.0        Sum of lost time (s)                      18.6
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  77.3%         ICU Level of Service                        D
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2011                                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                    Page 2




                                                                                                                                               Page 286
2: SR 714 & SW 42 Ave                                                                        AM Peak - Existing
Queues


Lane Group                    EBL    EBT       WBL      WBT     WBR     NBT    SBT    SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)           69  1083          5      785     230      37     64     18
v/c Ratio                     0.17   0.82      0.01     0.58    0.19    0.27   0.49   0.11
Control Delay                  2.7   12.6       6.0     12.4      1.4   42.7   67.6   21.7
Queue Delay                    0.0    0.0       0.0       0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Total Delay                    2.7   12.6       6.0     12.4      1.4   42.7   67.6   21.7
Queue Length 50th (ft)           5   446          1      314        0     19     52      0
Queue Length 95th (ft)        m19 m#1141          6      484      23      24     83     19
Internal Link Dist (ft)             2582                 858             402    409
Turn Bay Length (ft)          450               150               540                  470
Base Capacity (vph)           424   1321        382     1349    1204    230    221    271
Starvation Cap Reductn           0      0          0        0       0      0      0      0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0      0          0        0       0      0      0      0
Storage Cap Reductn              0      0          0        0       0      0      0      0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.16   0.82       0.01     0.58    0.19   0.16   0.29   0.07
Intersection Summary
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




11/6/2011                                                                                         Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                              Page 3




                                                                                                                       Page 287
2: SR 714 & SW 42 Ave                                                                                           AM Peak - Existing
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis


Movement                            EBL     EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT       WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         55       862       0          4      625       183      11         0      6      46         0       13
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                1700      1700     1700     1900      1900      1900     1900     1900    1900    1900     1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                 5.5       5.8                5.5       5.8       5.8              6.0                      6.0      6.0
Lane Util. Factor                  1.00      1.00              1.00      1.00      1.00              1.00                     1.00     1.00
Frt                                1.00      1.00              1.00      1.00      0.85              0.95                     1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                      0.95      1.00              0.95      1.00      1.00              0.97                     0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                 1524      1604              1703      1792      1524              1719                     1770     1583
Flt Permitted                     0.26       1.00             0.20      1.00      1.00               0.77                     0.73     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   418     1604                359     1792      1524              1358                     1365     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF              0.86      0.86    0.86      0.86      0.86      0.86     0.50     0.50    0.50    0.78     0.78     0.78
Growth Factor (vph)             108%       108%     108%     108%      108%      108%      108%    108%     108%    108%    108%     108%
Adj. Flow (vph)                      69     1083        0          5      785       230       24        0      13      64        0       18
RTOR Reduction (vph)                   0        0       0          0         0       63        0       12       0       0        0       16
Lane Group Flow (vph)                69     1083        0          5     785       167         0       25       0       0       64        2
Heavy Vehicles (%)                  6%        6%      6%        6%        6%        6%       2%       2%      2%      2%       2%       2%
Turn Type                       pm+pt                        pm+pt               Perm      Perm                     Perm             Perm
Protected Phases                       1       6                   5        2                          4                        8
Permitted Phases                       6                           2                 2        4                        8                 8
Actuated Green, G (s)            100.3     100.3               94.7     94.4     94.4               10.9                     10.9     10.9
Effective Green, g (s)           100.3     100.3               94.7     94.4      94.4              10.9                     10.9     10.9
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.77       0.77              0.73     0.73     0.73               0.08                     0.08     0.08
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5      5.8                5.5     5.8       5.8                6.0                      6.0     6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)               5.0       5.0               5.0      5.0       5.0               4.0                      4.0      4.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 385      1238                277    1301      1107                114                      114     133
v/s Ratio Prot                     0.01    c0.68               0.00    c0.44
v/s Ratio Perm                     0.13                        0.01               0.11              0.02                    c0.05     0.00
v/c Ratio                          0.18     0.87               0.02     0.60      0.15              0.22                     0.56     0.01
Uniform Delay, d1                    6.8    10.4               14.7      8.7       5.5              55.6                     57.3     54.6
Progression Factor                 0.56     0.81               1.00     1.00      1.00              1.00                     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2               0.2      4.9                 0.1     2.1       0.3               1.3                      7.5      0.0
Delay (s)                           4.0     13.3               14.7     10.8       5.8              56.9                     64.7     54.7
Level of Service                       A       B                   B       B         A                 E                        E        D
Approach Delay (s)                          12.8                         9.6                        56.9                     62.5
Approach LOS                                   B                           A                           E                        E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             13.9         HCM Level of Service                        B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.81
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            130.0         Sum of lost time (s)                      11.8
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   72.7%          ICU Level of Service                        C
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2011                                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                    Page 4




                                                                                                                                              Page 288
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd                                                                    AM Peak - Existing
Queues


Lane Group                    EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL        WBT     WBR    NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)         588     405        45     162        370      42   129    332      332    121     229      599
v/c Ratio                     1.19    0.50     0.06    0.37       0.79    0.10   0.37   0.61    0.63    0.41    0.42    0.81
Control Delay                132.6    27.2      6.7    20.0       58.0    12.2   34.5   52.8    10.7    35.4    48.8    14.0
Queue Delay                    0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0
Total Delay                  132.6    27.2      6.7    20.0       58.0    12.2   34.5   52.8    10.7    35.4    48.8    14.0
Queue Length 50th (ft)       ~485     204         0      49        262       0     72   124         0     68      83        8
Queue Length 95th (ft)       #958     398        25     112        436      33   124    181       53    124     135      105
Internal Link Dist (ft)               427                          454                   502                     595
Turn Bay Length (ft)                            315      240               410    300                    400             500
Base Capacity (vph)           496     907      794      609       759     673    434    1181    749     393    1184     920
Starvation Cap Reductn           0       0        0        0         0       0      0       0      0       0       0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0       0        0        0         0       0      0       0      0       0       0       0
Storage Cap Reductn              0       0        0        0         0       0      0       0      0       0       0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio             1.19    0.45     0.06     0.27      0.49    0.06   0.30    0.28   0.44    0.31    0.19    0.65
Intersection Summary
~ Volume exceeds capacity, queue is theoretically infinite.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.




11/6/2011                                                                                                  Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                       Page 5




                                                                                                                                Page 289
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd                                                                               AM Peak - Existing
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis


Movement                            EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR        NBL      NBT      NBR       SBL      SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                       541      373        41     146      333        38      106      273      273       104      197      516
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                1500     1900     1900     2400     2400     2400      1900     1900     1900     1900      1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                 6.0      6.3      6.3      5.5      5.8      5.8       5.8      6.0      6.0       5.9      5.9      5.9
Lane Util. Factor                  1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00
Frt                                1.00     1.00     0.85     1.00     1.00     0.85      1.00     1.00     0.85     1.00      1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                      0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                 1344     1792     1524     2151     2264     1925      1770     3539     1583     1770      3539     1583
Flt Permitted                      0.13     1.00     1.00     0.52     1.00     1.00      0.56     1.00     1.00     0.41      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   187    1792     1524     1187     2264     1925      1048     3539     1583       764     3539     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF              0.93     0.93     0.93     0.91     0.91     0.91      0.83     0.83     0.83     0.87      0.87     0.87
Growth Factor (vph)             101%      101%     101%     101%     101%     101%      101%     101%     101%     101%      101%     101%
Adj. Flow (vph)                     588      405       45      162      370       42       129      332      332      121       229     599
RTOR Reduction (vph)                  0        0       24        0        0       33         0        0     281          0        0     496
Lane Group Flow (vph)              588      405        21     162      370         9      129      332        51      121      229      103
Heavy Vehicles (%)                  6%       6%       6%       6%       6%       6%        2%       2%       2%       2%        2%       2%
Turn Type                       pm+pt              Perm     pm+pt             Perm      pm+pt             Perm     pm+pt              Perm
Protected Phases                      3       8                  7       4                   1       6                   5       2
Permitted Phases                      8                 8        4                 4         6                 6         2                2
Actuated Green, G (s)             70.0     54.3     54.3     35.0     24.8     24.8      30.6     18.3     18.3      30.4     18.3     18.3
Effective Green, g (s)            70.0     54.3     54.3     35.0     24.8     24.8      30.6     18.3     18.3      30.4     18.3     18.3
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.59     0.46     0.46     0.30     0.21     0.21      0.26     0.15     0.15      0.26     0.15     0.15
Clearance Time (s)                  6.0      6.3      6.3      5.5      5.8      5.8       5.8      6.0      6.0       5.9      5.9     5.9
Vehicle Extension (s)               3.0     3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 498      820      698      433      473      403       345      546      244       298      546     244
v/s Ratio Prot                   c0.40     0.23               0.03    0.16                0.04   c0.09              c0.04     0.06
v/s Ratio Perm                   c0.30              0.01     0.08              0.00      0.06              0.03      0.06              0.07
v/c Ratio                          1.18    0.49     0.03      0.37    0.78     0.02       0.37    0.61     0.21      0.41     0.42     0.42
Uniform Delay, d1                  32.6    22.5     17.7      31.9    44.3     37.3       35.2    46.8     43.8      35.3     45.3     45.4
Progression Factor                 1.00    1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2            100.4      0.5      0.0       0.5     8.2      0.0        0.7     1.9      0.4       0.9      0.5      1.2
Delay (s)                        133.1     23.0     17.7      32.4    52.6     37.3       35.9    48.7     44.3      36.2     45.9     46.6
Level of Service                      F       C        B         C       D        D          D       D        D         D        D        D
Approach Delay (s)                         85.1                       45.8                        44.8                        45.1
Approach LOS                                  F                          D                           D                           D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            57.5        HCM Level of Service                         E
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.89
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           118.6        Sum of lost time (s)                      11.9
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  87.1%         ICU Level of Service                         E
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2011                                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                    Page 6




                                                                                                                                               Page 290
                                                                           AM Peak - Existing
Arterial Level of Service
Arterial Level of Service: EB SR 714
                       Arterial    Flow   Running   Signal     Travel   Dist   Arterial    Arterial
Cross Street           Class      Speed     Time    Delay    Time (s)   (mi)   Speed          LOS
SW Citrus Blvd         I             50      50.8     53.1     103.9    0.70      24.4           D
SW 42 Ave              I             45      44.4     12.6       57.0   0.50      31.8           C
TPK NB Off Ramp        I             45      49.3     27.2       76.5   0.62      29.0           C
Total                  I                    144.5     92.9     237.4    1.83      27.7           C

Arterial Level of Service: WB SR 714
                       Arterial    Flow   Running   Signal     Travel   Dist   Arterial    Arterial
Cross Street           Class      Speed     Time    Delay    Time (s)   (mi)   Speed          LOS
SW Martin Downs Blvd   II            45      29.4     58.0       87.4   0.30      12.2           F
SW 42 Ave              II            45      49.3     12.4       61.7   0.62      36.0           A
SW Citrus Blvd         II            45      44.4     45.1       89.5   0.50      20.3           D
Total                  II                   123.1   115.5      238.6    1.42      21.4           D




11/6/2011                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                            Page 7




                                                                                                      Page 291
1: SR 714 & SW Citrus Blvd                                                                        PM Peak - Existing
Queues


Lane Group                    EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)           17     457       56      214     493     338      67     68    207      94      25      25
v/c Ratio                     0.04     0.46    0.06     0.32     0.42   0.30    0.27   0.45   0.65    0.35    0.10    0.11
Control Delay                 15.1     20.0     4.2       4.9     4.6     1.4   42.9   65.8   17.2    44.5    51.5    18.6
Queue Delay                    0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0
Total Delay                   15.1     20.0     4.2       4.9     4.6     1.4   42.9   65.8   17.2    44.5    51.5    18.6
Queue Length 50th (ft)           6     220        0         6      14       0     47     56       0     67      19       0
Queue Length 95th (ft)          19     321       20     m72     m253    m44       79     98     63      93      40      21
Internal Link Dist (ft)               3642                      2582                    586                    496
Turn Bay Length (ft)           420               420     285              365    240           575     365             365
Base Capacity (vph)           437     1000      875     694     1165    1110    270    295    425     274     330     301
Starvation Cap Reductn           0        0        0       0        0       0      0      0      0       0       0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0        0        0       0        0       0      0      0      0       0       0       0
Storage Cap Reductn              0        0        0       0        0       0      0      0      0       0       0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.04     0.46     0.06    0.31     0.42    0.30   0.25   0.23   0.49    0.34    0.08    0.08
Intersection Summary
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




11/6/2011                                                                                                Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                     Page 1




                                                                                                                              Page 292
1: SR 714 & SW Citrus Blvd                                                                                     PM Peak - Existing
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis


Movement                            EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR        NBL      NBT      NBR       SBL      SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        13       360       44      188      434      297        53       54      165        68       18       18
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900      1900     1900     2100     1900     1900      1900     1900     1900     1900      1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                6.0       6.2      6.2      6.0      6.2      6.2       6.0      6.4      6.4       6.0      4.1      4.1
Lane Util. Factor                 1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00
Frt                               1.00      1.00     0.85     1.00     1.00     0.85      1.00     1.00     0.85     1.00      1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95      1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1770      1792     1524     1882     1792     1524      1770     1863     1583     1770      1863     1583
Flt Permitted                     0.34      1.00     1.00     0.45     1.00     1.00      0.74     1.00     1.00     0.59      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  640     1792     1524       894    1792     1524      1380     1863     1583     1095      1863     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.85      0.85     0.85     0.95     0.95     0.95      0.86     0.86     0.86     0.78      0.78     0.78
Growth Factor (vph)             108%      108%     108%     108%     108%     108%      108%     108%     108%     108%      108%     108%
Adj. Flow (vph)                     17       457       56      214      493      338        67       68      207        94       25       25
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0         0       27        0        0     131          0        0     188          0        0       22
Lane Group Flow (vph)               17      457        29     214      493      207         67       68       19       94        25        3
Heavy Vehicles (%)                 2%        6%       6%       6%       6%       6%        2%       2%       2%       2%        2%       2%
Turn Type                       pm+pt              Perm     pm+pt             Perm      pm+pt             Perm     pm+pt              Perm
Protected Phases                     1        6                  5       2                   7       4                   3       8
Permitted Phases                     6                  6        2                 2         4                 4         8                8
Actuated Green, G (s)            67.7      67.7     67.7     79.9     79.7     79.7      20.0     11.8     11.8      28.3     17.1     17.1
Effective Green, g (s)           67.7      67.7     67.7     79.9     79.7     79.7      20.0     11.8     11.8      28.3     17.1     17.1
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.52      0.52     0.52     0.61     0.61     0.61      0.15     0.09     0.09      0.22     0.13     0.13
Clearance Time (s)                 6.0       6.2      6.2      6.0     6.2       6.2       6.0      6.4      6.4       6.0      4.1     4.1
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                357       933      794      661    1099       934       237      169      144       297      245     208
v/s Ratio Prot                    0.00    c0.25               0.04   c0.28                0.02    0.04              c0.03     0.01
v/s Ratio Perm                   0.02               0.02     0.16              0.14      0.03              0.01     c0.04              0.00
v/c Ratio                         0.05     0.49     0.04      0.32    0.45     0.22       0.28    0.40     0.13      0.32     0.10     0.02
Uniform Delay, d1                 16.5     20.0     15.2      15.6    13.4     11.3       48.4    55.8     54.4      42.0     49.7     49.1
Progression Factor                1.00     1.00     1.00      0.32    0.31     0.67       1.00    1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              0.1      1.8      0.1       0.1     0.7      0.3        0.7     1.6      0.4       0.6      0.2      0.0
Delay (s)                         16.5     21.9     15.3       5.1     4.8      7.8       49.0    57.3     54.8      42.7     49.9     49.2
Level of Service                     B        C        B         A       A        A          D       E        D          D       D        D
Approach Delay (s)                         21.0                        5.8                        54.2                        45.0
Approach LOS                                  C                          A                           D                           D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            20.5        HCM Level of Service                         C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.45
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           130.0        Sum of lost time (s)                      18.2
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  56.0%         ICU Level of Service                         B
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2011                                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                    Page 2




                                                                                                                                               Page 293
2: SR 714 & SW 42 Ave                                                                         PM Peak - Existing
Queues


Lane Group                    EBL      EBT     WBL      WBT     WBR     NBT    SBT    SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)           24     761        7     1055      67      22   326     111
v/c Ratio                     0.13     0.62    0.02      0.92   0.07    0.10   0.87   0.27
Control Delay                 10.8     23.2     6.3      35.8    2.8    28.8   72.8     9.1
Queue Delay                    0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0
Total Delay                   10.8     23.2     6.3      35.8    2.8    28.8   72.8     9.1
Queue Length 50th (ft)           9     471        2      843       0       8   263        0
Queue Length 95th (ft)        m17      657        6    #1189      20      16   265      18
Internal Link Dist (ft)               2582                870            402    409
Turn Bay Length (ft)          450               150               540                  470
Base Capacity (vph)           196     1230      420     1153    1004    236    401    428
Starvation Cap Reductn           0        0        0        0       0      0      0      0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0        0        0        0       0      0      0      0
Storage Cap Reductn              0        0        0        0       0      0      0      0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.12     0.62     0.02     0.92    0.07   0.09   0.81   0.26
Intersection Summary
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




11/6/2011                                                                                          Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                               Page 3




                                                                                                                        Page 294
2: SR 714 & SW 42 Ave                                                                                         PM Peak - Existing
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis


Movement                            EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT       WBR       NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         20      641       0          6      928        59      6         0      5     205         0       70
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900      1900     1900     1900      1900      1900    1900     1900    1900    1900     1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                 5.5      5.8                5.5       5.8      5.8              6.0                      6.0       6.0
Lane Util. Factor                 1.00      1.00              1.00      1.00      1.00             1.00                     1.00     1.00
Frt                               1.00      1.00              1.00      1.00      0.85             0.94                     1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95      1.00              0.95      1.00      1.00             0.97                     1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1703      1792              1703      1792      1524             1702                     1863     1583
Flt Permitted                     0.06     1.00              0.27       1.00     1.00              0.61                     1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  112     1792                478     1792      1524             1060                     1863     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.91      0.91    0.91      0.95      0.95      0.95    0.54     0.54    0.54    0.68     0.68     0.68
Growth Factor (vph)             108%      108%     108%     108%      108%      108%     108%    108%     108%    108%    108%     108%
Adj. Flow (vph)                      24      761       0          7    1055         67      12        0      10     326        0      111
RTOR Reduction (vph)                  0        0       0          0         0       25       0        8       0       0        0       89
Lane Group Flow (vph)               24      761        0          7    1055         42       0       14       0       0     326        22
Heavy Vehicles (%)                 6%        6%      6%        6%        6%        6%      2%       2%      2%      2%       2%       2%
Turn Type                       pm+pt                       pm+pt               Perm     Perm                     Perm             Perm
Protected Phases                      1       6                   5        2                         4                        8
Permitted Phases                      6                           2                  2      4                        8                 8
Actuated Green, G (s)             89.9     84.9               83.1     81.5      81.5             26.2                     26.2     26.2
Effective Green, g (s)            89.9     84.9               83.1     81.5      81.5             26.2                     26.2     26.2
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.69     0.65               0.64     0.63      0.63             0.20                     0.20     0.20
Clearance Time (s)                  5.5     5.8                 5.5     5.8        5.8              6.0                      6.0     6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)              5.0      5.0                5.0      5.0       5.0              4.0                      4.0      4.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 139    1170                 321    1123        955              214                      375     319
v/s Ratio Prot                   c0.01    c0.42               0.00    c0.59
v/s Ratio Perm                    0.11                        0.01               0.03             0.01                     0.18     0.01
v/c Ratio                         0.17     0.65               0.02     0.94      0.04             0.07                     0.87     0.07
Uniform Delay, d1                 24.0     13.6               10.7     22.0       9.3             42.0                     50.2     42.0
Progression Factor                1.52     1.63               1.00     1.00      1.00             1.00                     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2               1.1     2.6                 0.1    15.8       0.1              0.2                     19.3      0.1
Delay (s)                         37.5     24.7               10.8     37.8       9.4             42.2                     69.6     42.2
Level of Service                      D       C                   B       D         A                D                        E        D
Approach Delay (s)                         25.1                        35.9                       42.2                     62.6
Approach LOS                                  C                           D                          D                        E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            37.3         HCM Level of Service                       D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.94
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           130.0         Sum of lost time (s)                     23.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  81.5%          ICU Level of Service                       D
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2011                                                                                                             Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                  Page 4




                                                                                                                                             Page 295
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd                                                                    PM Peak - Existing
Queues


Lane Group                    EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL        WBT     WBR    NBL    NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)         537     342       112     394        364      78     69   196      143    117     328      733
v/c Ratio                     0.86    0.45     0.16     0.77       0.85   0.19   0.24   0.35    0.39    0.34    0.45    0.89
Control Delay                 40.6    31.8       5.6    32.4       67.0    9.9   35.6   51.0    10.2    37.2    49.0    22.4
Queue Delay                    0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0
Total Delay                   40.6    31.8       5.6    32.4       67.0    9.9   35.6   51.0    10.2    37.2    49.0    22.4
Queue Length 50th (ft)        316     204          0    156        291       0     45     82        0     78    138       94
Queue Length 95th (ft)       #610     338        36    #338       #536      43     82   123       58    121     181      238
Internal Link Dist (ft)               427                           457                  502                     584
Turn Bay Length (ft)                            315      240               410    300                    400             500
Base Capacity (vph)           627     810      750      523       484     466    407    1063    576     402    1066     916
Starvation Cap Reductn           0       0        0        0         0       0      0       0      0       0       0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0       0        0        0         0       0      0       0      0       0       0       0
Storage Cap Reductn              0       0        0        0         0       0      0       0      0       0       0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.86    0.42     0.15     0.75      0.75    0.17   0.17    0.18   0.25    0.29    0.31    0.80
Intersection Summary
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.




11/6/2011                                                                                                  Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                       Page 5




                                                                                                                                Page 296
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd                                                                               PM Peak - Existing
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis


Movement                            EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR        NBL      NBT      NBR      SBU      SBL      SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                       457      291        95     355      328        70        62     177      129        8       92      279
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900      1900     1900     1900     1700     1700      1900     1900     1900     1900    1900      1900
Total Lost time (s)                 6.0      6.3      6.3      5.5      5.8      5.8       5.8      6.0      6.0               5.9      5.9
Lane Util. Factor                 1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     0.95     1.00             1.00      0.95
Frt                               1.00      1.00     0.85     1.00     1.00     0.85      1.00     1.00     0.85             1.00      1.00
Flt Protected                     0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00     1.00              0.95      1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1703      1792     1524     1703     1604     1363      1770     3539     1583             1770      3539
Flt Permitted                     0.21      1.00     1.00     0.56     1.00     1.00      0.54     1.00     1.00             0.50      1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  373     1792     1524       995    1604     1363      1002     3539     1583               937     3539
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.86      0.86     0.86     0.91     0.91     0.91      0.91     0.91     0.91    0.86     0.86      0.86
Growth Factor (vph)             101%      101%     101%     101%     101%     101%      101%     101%     101%     101%    101%      101%
Adj. Flow (vph)                    537       342      112      394      364       78        69      196      143       9      108      328
RTOR Reduction (vph)                  0        0       65        0        0       57         0        0     119        0         0        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)              537      342        47     394      364        21        69     196        24       0     117       328
Heavy Vehicles (%)                 6%        6%       6%       6%       6%       6%        2%       2%       2%      2%       2%        2%
Turn Type                       pm+pt              Perm     pm+pt             Perm      pm+pt             Perm     pm+pt   pm+pt
Protected Phases                      3       8                  7       4                   1       6                 5         5       2
Permitted Phases                      8                 8        4                 4         6                 6       2         2
Actuated Green, G (s)             80.3     55.8     55.8     54.1     35.1     35.1      30.1     22.4     22.4              39.5     27.2
Effective Green, g (s)            80.3     55.8     55.8     54.1     35.1     35.1      30.1     22.4     22.4              39.5     27.2
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.60     0.42     0.42     0.41     0.26     0.26      0.23     0.17     0.17              0.30     0.20
Clearance Time (s)                  6.0      6.3      6.3      5.5      5.8      5.8       5.8      6.0      6.0               5.9      5.9
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0                3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 621      751      638      505      423      359       271      595      266               355      723
v/s Ratio Prot                   c0.26     0.19               0.11    0.23                0.01    0.06                      c0.03     0.09
v/s Ratio Perm                   c0.26              0.03      0.21             0.02       0.04             0.02              0.07
v/c Ratio                         0.86     0.46     0.07      0.78    0.86     0.06       0.25    0.33     0.09              0.33     0.45
Uniform Delay, d1                 27.3     27.8     23.2      30.9    46.7     36.7       41.5    48.8     46.8              35.4     46.5
Progression Factor                1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00              1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2             12.0      0.4      0.0       7.7    16.2      0.1        0.5     0.3      0.1                0.5     0.5
Delay (s)                         39.3     28.2     23.3      38.6    62.9     36.7       42.0    49.1     46.9              36.0     46.9
Level of Service                     D        C        C         D       E        D          D       D        D                 D        D
Approach Delay (s)                         33.7                       49.0                        47.2                                52.2
Approach LOS                                  C                          D                           D                                   D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            45.5        HCM Level of Service                         D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.78
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           133.2        Sum of lost time (s)                      17.8
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  79.8%         ICU Level of Service                        D
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2011                                                                                                              Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                   Page 6




                                                                                                                                              Page 297
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd                PM Peak - Existing
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis


Movement                  SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)               624
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900
Total Lost time (s)         5.9
Lane Util. Factor          1.00
Frt                        0.85
Flt Protected              1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         1583
Flt Permitted              1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF      0.86
Growth Factor (vph)      101%
Adj. Flow (vph)             733
RTOR Reduction (vph)       500
Lane Group Flow (vph)      233
Heavy Vehicles (%)          2%
Turn Type                Perm
Protected Phases
Permitted Phases              2
Actuated Green, G (s)     27.2
Effective Green, g (s)    27.2
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.20
Clearance Time (s)          5.9
Vehicle Extension (s)      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)         323
v/s Ratio Prot
v/s Ratio Perm           c0.15
v/c Ratio                 0.72
Uniform Delay, d1         49.5
Progression Factor        1.00
Incremental Delay, d2      7.7
Delay (s)                 57.2
Level of Service             E
Approach Delay (s)
Approach LOS
Intersection Summary




11/6/2011                                            Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                 Page 7




                                                                          Page 298
                                                                           PM Peak - Existing
Arterial Level of Service
Arterial Level of Service: EB SR 714
                       Arterial    Flow   Running   Signal     Travel   Dist   Arterial    Arterial
Cross Street           Class      Speed     Time    Delay    Time (s)   (mi)   Speed          LOS
SW Citrus Blvd         I             50      50.8     20.0       70.8   0.70      35.8           B
SW 42 Ave              I             45      44.4     23.2       67.6   0.50      26.8           D
TPK NB Off Ramp        I             45      49.3     31.8       81.1   0.62      27.3           C
Total                  I                    144.5     75.0     219.5    1.83      29.9           C

Arterial Level of Service: WB SR 714
                       Arterial    Flow   Running   Signal     Travel   Dist   Arterial    Arterial
Cross Street           Class      Speed     Time    Delay    Time (s)   (mi)   Speed          LOS
SW Martin Downs Blvd   II            45      29.4     67.0       96.4   0.30      11.1           F
SW 42 Ave              II            45      49.3     35.8       85.1   0.62      26.1           C
SW Citrus Blvd         II            45      44.4      4.6       49.0   0.50      37.0           A
Total                  II                   123.1   107.4      230.5    1.42      22.1           C




11/6/2011                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                            Page 8




                                                                                                      Page 299
1: SR 714 & SW Citrus Blvd                                                                              2021 - AM Peak
Queues


Lane Group                    EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL        WBT     WBR     NBL    NBT    NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)           75     615       95     155        465     537      72     58    318     523     119      180
v/c Ratio                     0.48     1.07    0.17    0.77       0.68    0.59    0.19   0.31    0.89    1.17    0.39    0.44
Control Delay                 39.8     98.8     6.4    76.5       49.3    13.3    40.6   58.2    45.1   139.8    54.5    10.4
Queue Delay                    0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0        0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
Total Delay                   39.8     98.8     6.4    76.5       49.3    13.3    40.6   58.2    45.1   139.8    54.5    10.4
Queue Length 50th (ft)          43    ~593        0      93        289      45      46     46      81   ~532       97        0
Queue Length 95th (ft)          73    #708       30     162        418     149      86     84   #189    #689     145       54
Internal Link Dist (ft)               3642                        2582                    586                     413
Turn Bay Length (ft)           420              420      285               365     240           575      365             365
Base Capacity (vph)           166     573      548      210       680     911     430    209    374      447     409     483
Starvation Cap Reductn           0       0        0        0         0       0       0      0      0        0       0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0       0        0        0         0       0       0      0      0        0       0       0
Storage Cap Reductn              0       0        0        0         0       0       0      0      0        0       0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.45    1.07     0.17     0.74      0.68    0.59    0.17   0.28   0.85     1.17    0.29    0.37
Intersection Summary
~ Volume exceeds capacity, queue is theoretically infinite.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.




11/6/2011                                                                                                   Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                        Page 1




                                                                                                                                 Page 300
1: SR 714 & SW Citrus Blvd                                                                                         2021 - AM Peak
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis


Movement                            EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR        NBL      NBT      NBR       SBL      SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        57       467       72      105      314      363        56       45      247      412        94     142
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1700      1700     1700     1900     1900     1900      1900     1900     1900     1700      1700     1700
Total Lost time (s)                6.0       6.2      6.2      6.0      6.2      6.2       6.0      6.4      6.4       6.0      6.4      6.4
Lane Util. Factor                 1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00
Frt                               1.00      1.00     0.85     1.00     1.00     0.85      1.00     1.00     0.85     1.00      1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95      1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1524      1604     1363     1703     1792     1524      1770     1863     1583     1583      1667     1417
Flt Permitted                     0.11      1.00     1.00     0.14     1.00     1.00      0.00     1.00     1.00     0.00      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  175     1604     1363       254    1792     1524          0    1863     1583          0    1667     1417
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.82      0.82     0.82     0.73     0.73     0.73      0.84     0.84     0.84     0.85      0.85     0.85
Growth Factor (vph)             108%      108%     108%     108%     108%     108%      108%     108%     108%     108%      108%     108%
Adj. Flow (vph)                     75       615       95      155      465      537        72       58      318      523       119     180
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0         0       63        0        0     343          0        0     197          0        0     147
Lane Group Flow (vph)               75      615        32     155      465      194         72       58     121       523      119        33
Heavy Vehicles (%)                 6%        6%       6%       6%       6%       6%        2%       2%       2%       2%        2%       2%
Turn Type                       pm+pt              Perm     pm+pt             Perm      pm+pt             Perm     pm+pt              Perm
Protected Phases                     1        6                  5       2                   7       4                   3       8
Permitted Phases                     6                  6        2                 2         4                 4         8                8
Actuated Green, G (s)            44.2      44.2     44.2     47.2     47.0     47.0      26.7     14.1     14.1      36.7     24.1     24.1
Effective Green, g (s)           44.2      44.2     44.2     47.2     47.0     47.0      26.7     14.1     14.1      36.7     24.1     24.1
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.34      0.34     0.34     0.36     0.36     0.36      0.21     0.11     0.11      0.28     0.19     0.19
Clearance Time (s)                 6.0       6.2      6.2      6.0      6.2      6.2       6.0      6.4      6.4       6.0      6.4     6.4
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      5.0      5.0       3.0     5.0      5.0        4.0     4.0      4.0       4.0      4.0      4.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                138       545      463      208      648      551       364      202      172       447      309     263
v/s Ratio Prot                    0.03    c0.38               0.06   c0.26                0.04    0.03              c0.33     0.07
v/s Ratio Perm                   0.15               0.02     0.21              0.13                       c0.08                        0.02
v/c Ratio                         0.54     1.13     0.07      0.75    0.72     0.35      0.20     0.29     0.70     1.17      0.39     0.13
Uniform Delay, d1                 33.3     42.9     29.0      50.9    35.8     30.4      42.8     53.3     55.9     46.6      46.5     44.2
Progression Factor                1.00     1.00     1.00      1.18    1.24     4.20      1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              4.3     79.0      0.3     11.2      5.5      1.4       0.4      1.1     13.1     98.1       1.1      0.3
Delay (s)                         37.6    121.9     29.3      71.1    49.8    129.0      43.1     54.4     69.0    144.8      47.5     44.5
Level of Service                     D        F        C         E       D        F         D        D        E        F         D        D
Approach Delay (s)                        102.7                       89.4                        63.0                       108.7
Approach LOS                                  F                          F                           E                           F
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            93.9        HCM Level of Service                         F
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         1.00
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           130.0        Sum of lost time (s)                      18.6
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  89.2%         ICU Level of Service                         E
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2011                                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                    Page 2




                                                                                                                                               Page 301
2: SR 714 & SW 42 Ave                                                                        2021 - AM Peak
Queues


Lane Group                    EBL    EBT       WBL      WBT     WBR     NBT    SBT    SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)           83  1293          6      938     275      43     76     22
v/c Ratio                     0.25   0.98      0.03     0.72    0.23    0.33   0.46   0.14
Control Delay                  2.3   16.6       6.8     16.1      1.4   45.5   64.3   21.2
Queue Delay                    0.0    0.0       0.0       0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Total Delay                    2.3   16.6       6.8     16.1      1.4   45.5   64.3   21.2
Queue Length 50th (ft)           2   601          1      434        0     22     62      0
Queue Length 95th (ft)        m17 m#1201          6      659      24      27     95     21
Internal Link Dist (ft)             2582                 858             402    409
Turn Bay Length (ft)          450               150               540                  470
Base Capacity (vph)           334   1326        244     1305    1185    230    301    274
Starvation Cap Reductn           0      0          0        0       0      0      0      0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0      0          0        0       0      0      0      0
Storage Cap Reductn              0      0          0        0       0      0      0      0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.25   0.98       0.02     0.72    0.23   0.19   0.25   0.08
Intersection Summary
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




11/6/2011                                                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                           Page 3




                                                                                                                    Page 302
2: SR 714 & SW 42 Ave                                                                                               2021 - AM Peak
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis


Movement                            EBL     EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT       WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         66     1030        0          5      747       219      13         0      7      55         0       16
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                1700      1700     1700     1900      1900      1900     1900     1900    1900    1900     1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                 5.5       5.8                5.5       5.8       5.8              6.0                      6.0      6.0
Lane Util. Factor                  1.00      1.00              1.00      1.00      1.00              1.00                     1.00     1.00
Frt                                1.00      1.00              1.00      1.00      0.85              0.95                     1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                      0.95      1.00              0.95      1.00      1.00              0.97                     1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                 1524      1604              1703      1792      1524              1719                     1863     1583
Flt Permitted                     0.18       1.00             0.09      1.00      1.00               0.76                     1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   292     1604                167     1792      1524              1345                     1863     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF              0.86      0.86    0.86      0.86      0.86      0.86     0.50     0.50    0.50    0.78     0.78     0.78
Growth Factor (vph)             108%       108%     108%     108%      108%      108%      108%    108%     108%    108%    108%     108%
Adj. Flow (vph)                      83     1293        0          6      938       275       28        0      15      76        0       22
RTOR Reduction (vph)                   0        0       0          0         0       77        0       14       0       0        0       20
Lane Group Flow (vph)                83     1293        0          6     938       198         0       29       0       0       76        2
Heavy Vehicles (%)                  6%        6%      6%        6%        6%        6%       2%       2%      2%      2%       2%       2%
Turn Type                       pm+pt                        pm+pt               Perm      Perm                     Perm             Perm
Protected Phases                       1       6                   5        2                          4                        8
Permitted Phases                       6                           2                 2        4                        8                 8
Actuated Green, G (s)            100.7     100.7               93.8     93.5     93.5               10.1                     10.1     10.1
Effective Green, g (s)           100.7     100.7               93.8     93.5      93.5              10.1                     10.1     10.1
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.77       0.77              0.72     0.72     0.72               0.08                     0.08     0.08
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5      5.8                5.5     5.8       5.8                6.0                      6.0     6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)               5.0       5.0               5.0      5.0       5.0               4.0                      4.0      4.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 312      1242                143    1289      1096                104                      145     123
v/s Ratio Prot                     0.02    c0.81               0.00    c0.52
v/s Ratio Perm                     0.19                        0.03               0.13              0.02                     0.04     0.00
v/c Ratio                          0.27     1.04               0.04     0.73      0.18              0.28                     0.52     0.01
Uniform Delay, d1                  10.6     14.6               32.0     10.8       5.9              56.5                     57.6     55.4
Progression Factor                 0.54     0.83               1.00     1.00      1.00              1.00                     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2               0.1     21.3                 0.3     3.6       0.4               2.0                      4.4      0.1
Delay (s)                           5.9     33.4               32.2     14.4       6.2              58.5                     62.0     55.4
Level of Service                       A       C                  C        B         A                 E                        E        E
Approach Delay (s)                          31.8                        12.6                        58.5                     60.5
Approach LOS                                   C                           B                           E                        E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             24.7         HCM Level of Service                        C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.96
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            130.0         Sum of lost time (s)                      11.8
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   83.9%          ICU Level of Service                         E
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2011                                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                    Page 4




                                                                                                                                              Page 303
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd                                                               2021 - AM Peak
Queues


Lane Group                EBL     EBT     EBR    WBL     WBT     WBR    NBL    NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)     809     484       53    194     442      50   155    397      397     144     273      716
v/c Ratio                 0.89    0.47    0.11   0.32    0.70    0.15   0.35   0.48    0.59     0.38    0.33    0.91
Control Delay             37.7    31.6     8.0   21.9    52.5    13.9   26.4   40.8      7.8    27.1    38.7    27.3
Queue Delay                0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
Total Delay               37.7    31.6     8.0   21.9    52.5    13.9   26.4   40.8      7.8    27.1    38.7    27.3
Queue Length 50th (ft)    218     143        0     38     161       0     72   131         0      67      86     128
Queue Length 95th (ft)    373     236       30     73     273      38   135    203       49     134     150      344
Internal Link Dist (ft)           427                     454                   502                      595
Turn Bay Length (ft)                       315    240             410    300                     400             500
Base Capacity (vph)       1196    1706    786    926     1273    601    540    1321    840      484    1320     934
Starvation Cap Reductn        0       0      0      0        0      0      0       0      0        0       0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn         0       0      0      0        0      0      0       0      0        0       0       0
Storage Cap Reductn           0       0      0      0        0      0      0       0      0        0       0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio          0.68    0.28   0.07   0.21     0.35   0.08   0.29    0.30   0.47     0.30    0.21    0.77
Intersection Summary




11/6/2011                                                                                          Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                               Page 5




                                                                                                                        Page 304
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd                                                                                   2021 - AM Peak
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis


Movement                            EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR        NBL      NBT      NBR       SBL      SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                       745      446        49     175      398        45      127      326      326       124      235      617
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1700      1700     1700     1900     1900     1900      1900     1900     1900     1900      1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                 6.0      6.3      6.3      5.5      5.8      5.8       5.8      6.0      6.0       5.9      5.9      5.9
Lane Util. Factor                 0.97      0.95     1.00     0.97     0.95     1.00      1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00
Frt                               1.00      1.00     0.85     1.00     1.00     0.85      1.00     1.00     0.85     1.00      1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95      1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                2956      3047     1363     3303     3406     1524      1770     3539     1583     1770      3539     1583
Flt Permitted                     0.24      1.00     1.00     0.48     1.00     1.00      0.55     1.00     1.00     0.42      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  751     3047     1363     1655     3406     1524      1026     3539     1583       775     3539     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.93      0.93     0.93     0.91     0.91     0.91      0.83     0.83     0.83     0.87      0.87     0.87
Growth Factor (vph)             101%      101%     101%     101%     101%     101%      101%     101%     101%     101%      101%     101%
Adj. Flow (vph)                    809       484       53      194      442       50       155      397      397      144       273     716
RTOR Reduction (vph)                  0        0       35        0        0       41         0        0     304          0        0     419
Lane Group Flow (vph)              809      484        18     194      442         9      155      397        93      144      273      297
Heavy Vehicles (%)                 6%        6%       6%       6%       6%       6%        2%       2%       2%       2%        2%       2%
Turn Type                       pm+pt              Perm     pm+pt             Perm      pm+pt             Perm     pm+pt              Perm
Protected Phases                      3       8                  7       4                   1       6                   5       2
Permitted Phases                      8                 8        4                 4         6                 6         2                2
Actuated Green, G (s)             54.3    38.5      38.5     31.3     21.0     21.0      38.9     26.2     26.2      38.9     26.3     26.3
Effective Green, g (s)            54.3    38.5      38.5     31.3     21.0     21.0      38.9     26.2     26.2      38.9     26.3     26.3
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.49     0.35     0.35     0.28     0.19     0.19      0.35     0.24     0.24      0.35     0.24     0.24
Clearance Time (s)                  6.0     6.3       6.3      5.5      5.8      5.8       5.8      6.0      6.0       5.9      5.9     5.9
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 917    1054       471      618      643      288       443      833      373       384      836     374
v/s Ratio Prot                   c0.22     0.16               0.03    0.13                0.04    0.11              c0.04     0.08
v/s Ratio Perm                   c0.21              0.01     0.06              0.01      0.08              0.06      0.09             c0.19
v/c Ratio                         0.88     0.46     0.04      0.31    0.69     0.03       0.35    0.48     0.25      0.38     0.33     0.79
Uniform Delay, d1                 23.2     28.3     24.1      30.5    42.1     36.9       25.8    36.6     34.6      25.8     35.2     39.9
Progression Factor                1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2             10.0      0.3      0.0       0.3     3.1      0.0        0.5     0.4      0.4       0.6      0.2     11.0
Delay (s)                         33.2     28.6     24.2      30.8    45.2     36.9       26.3    37.1     34.9      26.4     35.4     51.0
Level of Service                     C        C        C         C       D        D          C       D        C         C        D        D
Approach Delay (s)                         31.2                       40.5                        34.4                        44.1
Approach LOS                                  C                          D                           C                           D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            37.0        HCM Level of Service                         D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.76
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           111.3        Sum of lost time (s)                      17.8
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  71.4%         ICU Level of Service                        C
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2011                                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                    Page 6




                                                                                                                                               Page 305
                                                                               2021 - AM Peak
Arterial Level of Service
Arterial Level of Service: EB SR 714
                       Arterial    Flow   Running   Signal     Travel   Dist     Arterial    Arterial
Cross Street           Class      Speed     Time    Delay    Time (s)   (mi)     Speed          LOS
SW Citrus Blvd         I             50      50.8     98.8     149.6    0.70        17.0           E
SW 42 Ave              I             45      44.4     16.6       61.0   0.50        29.8           C
TPK NB Off Ramp        I             45      49.3     31.6       80.9   0.62        27.4           C
Total                  I                    144.5   147.0      291.5    1.83        22.5           D

Arterial Level of Service: WB SR 714
                       Arterial    Flow   Running   Signal     Travel   Dist     Arterial    Arterial
Cross Street           Class      Speed     Time    Delay    Time (s)   (mi)     Speed          LOS
SW Martin Downs Blvd   II            45      29.4     52.5       81.9   0.30        13.0           E
SW 42 Ave              II            45      49.3     16.1       65.4   0.62        33.9           B
SW Citrus Blvd         II            45      44.4     49.3       93.7   0.50        19.4           D
Total                  II                   123.1   117.9      241.0    1.42        21.2           D




11/6/2011                                                                         Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                              Page 7




                                                                                                        Page 306
1: SR 714 & SW Citrus Blvd                                                                               2021 - PM PEAK
Queues


Lane Group                    EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL      WBT        WBR     NBL    NBT    NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)           20     546       67     256      590        404      79     82    247     112       30      30
v/c Ratio                     0.07     0.59    0.08     0.54     0.59      0.40    0.30   0.50   0.68     0.40    0.12    0.12
Control Delay                 18.2     26.5     4.6     22.4     16.7        5.1   42.5   66.7   16.4     44.8    51.4    17.3
Queue Delay                    0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Total Delay                   18.2     26.5     4.6     22.4     16.7        5.1   42.5   66.7   16.4     44.8    51.4    17.3
Queue Length 50th (ft)           8     317        0       70     286         32      54     67       0      78      23       0
Queue Length 95th (ft)          23     441       23    m138     m430       m47       89   112      65     107       46      22
Internal Link Dist (ft)               3642                      2582                       586                     496
Turn Bay Length (ft)           420               420     285                 365    240           575      365             365
Base Capacity (vph)           320      929      822     473         996    1000    282    295    459      283     332     307
Starvation Cap Reductn           0        0        0       0           0       0      0      0      0        0       0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0        0        0       0           0       0      0      0      0        0       0       0
Storage Cap Reductn              0        0        0       0           0       0      0      0      0        0       0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.06     0.59     0.08    0.54        0.59    0.40   0.28   0.28   0.54     0.40    0.09    0.10
Intersection Summary
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




11/6/2011                                                                                                    Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                         Page 1




                                                                                                                                  Page 307
1: SR 714 & SW Citrus Blvd                                                                                         2021 - PM PEAK
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis


Movement                            EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR        NBL      NBT      NBR       SBL      SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        16       430       53      225      519      355        63       65      197        81       22       22
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900      1900     1900     1700     1700     1700      1900     1900     1900     1900      1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                6.0       6.2      6.2      6.0      6.2      6.2       6.0      6.4      6.4       6.0      4.1      4.1
Lane Util. Factor                 1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00
Frt                               1.00      1.00     0.85     1.00     1.00     0.85      1.00     1.00     0.85     1.00      1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95      1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1703      1792     1524     1524     1604     1363      1770     1863     1583     1770      1863     1583
Flt Permitted                     0.25      1.00     1.00     0.36     1.00     1.00      0.74     1.00     1.00     0.59      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  450     1792     1524       581    1604     1363      1374     1863     1583     1103      1863     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.85      0.85     0.85     0.95     0.95     0.95      0.86     0.86     0.86     0.78      0.78     0.78
Growth Factor (vph)             108%      108%     108%     108%     108%     108%      108%     108%     108%     108%      108%     108%
Adj. Flow (vph)                     20       546       67      256      590      404        79       82      247      112        30       30
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0         0       34        0        0     164          0        0     223          0        0       26
Lane Group Flow (vph)               20      546        33     256      590      240         79       82       24      112        30        4
Heavy Vehicles (%)                 6%        6%       6%       6%       6%       6%        2%       2%       2%       2%        2%       2%
Turn Type                       pm+pt              Perm     pm+pt             Perm      pm+pt             Perm     pm+pt              Perm
Protected Phases                     1        6                  5       2                   7       4                   3       8
Permitted Phases                     6                  6        2                 2         4                 4         8                8
Actuated Green, G (s)            63.4      63.4     63.4     77.3     77.1     77.1      21.4     12.6     12.6      29.3     17.7     17.7
Effective Green, g (s)           63.4      63.4     63.4     77.3     77.1     77.1      21.4     12.6     12.6      29.3     17.7     17.7
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.49      0.49     0.49     0.59     0.59     0.59      0.16     0.10     0.10      0.23     0.14     0.14
Clearance Time (s)                 6.0       6.2      6.2      6.0      6.2      6.2       6.0      6.4      6.4       6.0      4.1     4.1
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                259       874      743      475      951      808       253      181      153       308      254     216
v/s Ratio Prot                    0.00    c0.30               0.07   c0.37                0.02    0.04              c0.03     0.02
v/s Ratio Perm                   0.04               0.02     0.25              0.18      0.03              0.02     c0.05              0.00
v/c Ratio                         0.08     0.62     0.04      0.54    0.62     0.30       0.31    0.45     0.16      0.36     0.12     0.02
Uniform Delay, d1                 19.8     24.5     17.4      25.2    17.0     13.1       47.5    55.4     53.8      41.7     49.3     48.6
Progression Factor                1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00    0.93     3.29       1.00    1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              0.1      3.4      0.1       0.1     0.3      0.1        0.7     1.8      0.5       0.7      0.2      0.0
Delay (s)                         20.0     27.9     17.5      25.3    16.1     43.1       48.2    57.2     54.3      42.4     49.5     48.7
Level of Service                     B        C        B         C       B        D          D       E        D          D       D        D
Approach Delay (s)                         26.6                       26.7                        53.7                        44.7
Approach LOS                                  C                          C                           D                           D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            32.4        HCM Level of Service                         C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.60
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           130.0        Sum of lost time (s)                      24.4
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  65.4%         ICU Level of Service                        C
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2011                                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                    Page 2




                                                                                                                                               Page 308
2: SR 714 & SW 42 Ave                                                                            2021 - PM PEAK
Queues


Lane Group                    EBL      EBT     WBL       WBT    WBR        NBT    SBT    SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)           28     909        8     1261      81         26   389     133
v/c Ratio                     0.21     0.75    0.03      1.23   0.09       0.13   0.97   0.30
Control Delay                 12.0     27.8     6.5     137.4    2.5       28.7   88.7     8.6
Queue Delay                    0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0     0.0
Total Delay                   12.0     27.8     6.5     137.4    2.5       28.7   88.7     8.6
Queue Length 50th (ft)          11     644        2    ~1359       0         10   328        0
Queue Length 95th (ft)        m11      904        7    #1631      21         18   320      17
Internal Link Dist (ft)               2582                870               402    409
Turn Bay Length (ft)          450               150                  540                  470
Base Capacity (vph)           178     1211      278     1024        899    194    401    445
Starvation Cap Reductn           0        0        0        0          0      0      0      0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0        0        0        0          0      0      0      0
Storage Cap Reductn              0        0        0        0          0      0      0      0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.16     0.75     0.03     1.23       0.09   0.13   0.97   0.30
Intersection Summary
~ Volume exceeds capacity, queue is theoretically infinite.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




11/6/2011                                                                                           Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                Page 3




                                                                                                                         Page 309
2: SR 714 & SW 42 Ave                                                                                               2021 - PM PEAK
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis


Movement                            EBL    EBT       EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR        NBL     NBT      NBR      SBL     SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         24      766        0          7    1109        71       7          0      6     245         0       84
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900      1900      1900     1700      1700     1700     1900     1900     1900    1900     1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                 5.5      5.8                 5.5      5.8      5.8                6.0                      6.0       6.0
Lane Util. Factor                 1.00      1.00               1.00      1.00     1.00              1.00                      1.00     1.00
Frt                               1.00      1.00               1.00      1.00     0.85              0.94                      1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95      1.00               0.95      1.00     1.00              0.97                      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1703      1792               1524      1604     1363              1701                      1863     1583
Flt Permitted                     0.05     1.00               0.17       1.00    1.00               0.49                      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                    86    1792                 273     1604     1363                857                     1863     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.91      0.91     0.91      0.95      0.95     0.95     0.54     0.54     0.54    0.68     0.68     0.68
Growth Factor (vph)             108%      108%      108%     108%      108%     108%      108%    108%      108%    108%    108%     108%
Adj. Flow (vph)                      28      909        0          8    1261        81       14         0      12     389        0      133
RTOR Reduction (vph)                  0        0        0          0        0       31        0         9       0       0        0      104
Lane Group Flow (vph)               28      909         0          8    1261        50        0       17        0       0     389        29
Heavy Vehicles (%)                 6%        6%       6%        6%        6%       6%       2%       2%       2%      2%       2%       2%
Turn Type                       pm+pt                        pm+pt              Perm      Perm                      Perm             Perm
Protected Phases                      1       6                    5       2                           4                        8
Permitted Phases                      6                            2                 2       4                         8                 8
Actuated Green, G (s)             87.4     83.5                82.0     80.8     80.8              28.0                      28.0     28.0
Effective Green, g (s)            87.4     83.5                82.0     80.8     80.8              28.0                      28.0     28.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.67     0.64                0.63     0.62     0.62              0.22                      0.22     0.22
Clearance Time (s)                  5.5     5.8                  5.5      5.8      5.8               6.0                       6.0     6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      3.0                 3.0      3.0      3.0               3.0                       3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 106    1151                  184      997      847               185                       401     341
v/s Ratio Prot                   c0.01    c0.51                0.00    c0.79
v/s Ratio Perm                    0.17                         0.03              0.04              0.02                      0.21     0.02
v/c Ratio                         0.26     0.79                0.04     1.26     0.06              0.09                      0.97     0.08
Uniform Delay, d1                 31.8     16.9                14.8     24.6      9.7              40.8                      50.6     40.8
Progression Factor                1.45     1.56                1.00     1.00     1.00              1.00                      1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2               1.1     4.8                  0.1   127.2      0.1               0.2                      37.0      0.1
Delay (s)                         47.1     31.1                14.9    151.8      9.8              41.0                      87.6     40.9
Level of Service                      D       C                    B       F        A                 D                         F        D
Approach Delay (s)                         31.6                        142.5                       41.0                      75.7
Approach LOS                                  C                            F                          D                         E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             92.6         HCM Level of Service                        F
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          1.22
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            130.0         Sum of lost time (s)                      23.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  101.6%          ICU Level of Service                        G
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2011                                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                    Page 4




                                                                                                                                               Page 310
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd                                                                        2021 - PM PEAK
Queues


Lane Group                    EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL        WBT     WBR    NBL    NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)         696     409       134     471        435      93     82   235      171     141     391      876
v/c Ratio                     0.82    0.51     0.29    0.63       0.76    0.28   0.19   0.21    0.28     0.27    0.33     0.95
Control Delay                 32.4    41.3       7.4   26.8       55.4    10.6   21.7   33.2      6.7    22.0    32.2     32.9
Queue Delay                    0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
Total Delay                   32.4    41.3       7.4   26.8       55.4    10.6   21.7   33.2      6.7    22.0    32.2     32.9
Queue Length 50th (ft)        187     143          0    118        163       0     34     67        0      60    114      256
Queue Length 95th (ft)        235     188        42     165        244      47     78   126       58     119     184     #573
Internal Link Dist (ft)               427                          457                   502                      584
Turn Bay Length (ft)                            315      240               410    300                     400             500
Base Capacity (vph)          1187     1706     830      794       1019    518    561    1178    641      606    1181     924
Starvation Cap Reductn           0        0       0        0          0      0      0       0      0        0       0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0        0       0        0          0      0      0       0      0        0       0       0
Storage Cap Reductn              0        0       0        0          0      0      0       0      0        0       0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.59     0.24    0.16     0.59       0.43   0.18   0.15    0.20   0.27     0.23    0.33    0.95
Intersection Summary
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.




11/6/2011                                                                                                   Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                        Page 5




                                                                                                                                 Page 311
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd                                                                                   2021 - PM PEAK
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis


Movement                            EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR        NBL      NBT      NBR      SBU      SBL      SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                       593      348      114      424      392        84        74     212      154       10     110       333
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900      1900     1900     1700     1700     1700      1900     1900     1900     1900    1900      1900
Total Lost time (s)                 6.0      6.3      6.3      5.5      5.8      5.8       5.8      6.0      6.0               5.9      5.9
Lane Util. Factor                 0.97      0.95     1.00     0.97     0.95     1.00      1.00     0.95     1.00             1.00      0.95
Frt                               1.00      1.00     0.85     1.00     1.00     0.85      1.00     1.00     0.85             1.00      1.00
Flt Protected                     0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00     1.00              0.95      1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                3303      3406     1524     2956     3047     1363      1770     3539     1583             1770      3539
Flt Permitted                     0.24      1.00     1.00     0.51     1.00     1.00      0.49     1.00     1.00             0.57      1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  848     3406     1524     1593     3047     1363        922    3539     1583             1059      3539
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.86      0.86     0.86     0.91     0.91     0.91      0.91     0.91     0.91    0.86     0.86      0.86
Growth Factor (vph)             101%      101%     101%     101%     101%     101%      101%     101%     101%     101%    101%      101%
Adj. Flow (vph)                    696       409      134      471      435       93        82      235      171      12      129      391
RTOR Reduction (vph)                  0        0     102         0        0       76         0        0     118        0         0        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)              696      409        32     471      435        17        82     235        53       0     141       391
Heavy Vehicles (%)                 6%        6%       6%       6%       6%       6%        2%       2%       2%      2%       2%        2%
Turn Type                       pm+pt              Perm     pm+pt             Perm      pm+pt             Perm     pm+pt   pm+pt
Protected Phases                      3       8                  7       4                   1       6                 5         5       2
Permitted Phases                      8                 8        4                 4         6                 6       2         2
Actuated Green, G (s)             51.2     27.9     27.9     40.0     22.2     22.2      46.3    36.9      36.9              51.1    39.4
Effective Green, g (s)            51.2     27.9     27.9     40.0     22.2     22.2      46.3    36.9      36.9              51.1    39.4
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.43     0.24     0.24     0.34     0.19     0.19      0.39     0.31     0.31              0.43    0.33
Clearance Time (s)                  6.0      6.3      6.3      5.5      5.8      5.8       5.8     6.0       6.0               5.9     5.9
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0                3.0    3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 857      805      360      746      573      256       429    1107       495               529    1182
v/s Ratio Prot                   c0.16     0.12               0.10    0.14                0.02    0.07                      c0.03    0.11
v/s Ratio Perm                   c0.19              0.02      0.12             0.01       0.06             0.03              0.09
v/c Ratio                         0.81     0.51     0.09      0.63    0.76     0.07       0.19    0.21     0.11              0.27     0.33
Uniform Delay, d1                 25.4     39.1     35.1      30.7    45.4     39.4       22.9    29.9     28.8              20.6     29.4
Progression Factor                1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00              1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              5.9      0.5      0.1       1.8     5.7      0.1        0.2     0.1      0.1                0.3     0.2
Delay (s)                         31.3     39.6     35.2      32.4    51.1     39.5       23.1    29.9     28.9              20.9     29.6
Level of Service                     C        D        D         C       D        D          C       C        C                 C        C
Approach Delay (s)                         34.5                       41.2                        28.4                                45.7
Approach LOS                                  C                          D                           C                                   D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            39.2        HCM Level of Service                         D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.74
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           118.0        Sum of lost time (s)                      11.9
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  80.1%         ICU Level of Service                        D
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2011                                                                                                              Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                   Page 6




                                                                                                                                              Page 312
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd                2021 - PM PEAK
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis


Movement                  SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)               746
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900
Total Lost time (s)         5.9
Lane Util. Factor          1.00
Frt                        0.85
Flt Protected              1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         1583
Flt Permitted              1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF      0.86
Growth Factor (vph)      101%
Adj. Flow (vph)             876
RTOR Reduction (vph)       396
Lane Group Flow (vph)      480
Heavy Vehicles (%)          2%
Turn Type                Perm
Protected Phases
Permitted Phases              2
Actuated Green, G (s)     39.4
Effective Green, g (s)    39.4
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.33
Clearance Time (s)          5.9
Vehicle Extension (s)      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)         529
v/s Ratio Prot
v/s Ratio Perm           c0.30
v/c Ratio                 0.91
Uniform Delay, d1         37.6
Progression Factor        1.00
Incremental Delay, d2     19.3
Delay (s)                 56.8
Level of Service             E
Approach Delay (s)
Approach LOS
Intersection Summary




11/6/2011                                          Synchro 7 - Report
                                                               Page 7




                                                                        Page 313
                                                                               2021 - PM PEAK
Arterial Level of Service
Arterial Level of Service: EB SR 714
                       Arterial    Flow   Running   Signal     Travel   Dist     Arterial    Arterial
Cross Street           Class      Speed     Time    Delay    Time (s)   (mi)     Speed          LOS
SW Citrus Blvd         I             50      50.8     26.5       77.3   0.70        32.8           C
SW 42 Ave              I             45      44.4     27.8       72.2   0.50        25.1           D
TPK NB Off Ramp        I             45      49.3     41.3       90.6   0.62        24.5           D
Total                  I                    144.5     95.6     240.1    1.83        27.4           C

Arterial Level of Service: WB SR 714
                       Arterial    Flow   Running   Signal     Travel   Dist     Arterial    Arterial
Cross Street           Class      Speed     Time    Delay    Time (s)   (mi)     Speed          LOS
SW Martin Downs Blvd   II            45      29.4     55.4       84.8   0.30        12.6           F
SW 42 Ave              II            45      49.3   137.4      186.7    0.62        11.9           F
SW Citrus Blvd         II            45      44.4     16.7       61.1   0.50        29.7           B
Total                  II                   123.1   209.5      332.6    1.42        15.3           E




11/6/2011                                                                         Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                              Page 8




                                                                                                        Page 314
1: SR 714 & SW Citrus Blvd                                                                                2031 - AM Peak
Queues


Lane Group                    EBL      EBT     EBR    WBL       WBT        WBR     NBL    NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)           91     736      113    186       556        186      86     69     381     626     144      216
v/c Ratio                     0.38     1.02    0.17   1.26       0.68      0.23    0.41   0.36    1.22     1.20    0.28    0.37
Control Delay                 24.3     82.2      4.8 166.7       31.0        5.3   43.8   72.5   156.1    147.1    43.5      6.5
Queue Delay                    0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
Total Delay                   24.3     82.2      4.8 166.7       31.0        5.3   43.8   72.5   156.1    147.1    43.5      6.5
Queue Length 50th (ft)          46    ~815         1 ~158        472         28      57     68   ~325     ~653     114         0
Queue Length 95th (ft)          71    #904       29 m#218       m442       m34       91   115    #472     #809     167       49
Internal Link Dist (ft)               3642                      2582                       586                      413
Turn Bay Length (ft)           420               420     285                365     240            575      365             365
Base Capacity (vph)           240      720      673     148         815    795     209    193     312      521     517     588
Starvation Cap Reductn           0        0        0       0           0      0       0      0       0        0       0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0        0        0       0           0      0       0      0       0        0       0       0
Storage Cap Reductn              0        0        0       0           0      0       0      0       0        0       0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.38     1.02     0.17    1.26        0.68   0.23    0.41   0.36    1.22     1.20    0.28    0.37
Intersection Summary
~ Volume exceeds capacity, queue is theoretically infinite.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




11/6/2011                                                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                          Page 1




                                                                                                                                   Page 315
1: SR 714 & SW Citrus Blvd                                                                                            2031 - AM Peak
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis


Movement                            EBL    EBT       EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR        NBL      NBT      NBR       SBL      SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        69       559        86       126      376      126        67       54      296       493      113     170
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1700      1700      1700      1900     1900     1900      1900     1900     1900      1700     1700     1700
Total Lost time (s)                6.0       6.2       6.2       6.0      6.2      6.2       6.0      6.4      6.4       6.0      6.4      6.4
Lane Util. Factor                 1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00
Frt                               1.00      1.00      0.85      1.00     1.00     0.85      1.00     1.00     0.85      1.00     1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95      1.00      1.00      0.95     1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1524      1604      1363      1703     1792     1524      1770     1863     1583      1583     1667     1417
Flt Permitted                     0.25      1.00      1.00      0.09     1.00     1.00      0.67     1.00     1.00      0.52     1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  408     1604      1363        161    1792     1524      1239     1863     1583        872    1667     1417
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.82      0.82      0.82      0.73     0.73     0.73      0.84     0.84     0.84      0.85     0.85     0.85
Growth Factor (vph)             108%      108%      108%     108%      108%     108%      108%     108%     108%     108%      108%     108%
Adj. Flow (vph)                     91       736       113       186      556      186        86       69      381       626      144     216
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0         0        62         0        0     101          0        0     148          0        0     149
Lane Group Flow (vph)               91      736         51      186      556        85        86       69     233       626      144        67
Heavy Vehicles (%)                 6%        6%        6%        6%       6%       6%        2%       2%       2%        2%       2%       2%
Turn Type                       pm+pt               Perm     pm+pt              Perm      pm+pt             Perm     pm+pt              Perm
Protected Phases                     1        6                    5       2                   7       4                   3       8
Permitted Phases                     6                   6         2                 2         4                 4         8                8
Actuated Green, G (s)            77.8      71.8      71.8      79.8     72.8     72.8      23.6     16.6     16.6      62.6     49.6     49.6
Effective Green, g (s)           77.8      71.8      71.8      79.8     72.8     72.8      23.6     16.6     16.6      62.6     49.6     49.6
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.49      0.45      0.45      0.50     0.45     0.45      0.15     0.10     0.10      0.39     0.31     0.31
Clearance Time (s)                 6.0       6.2       6.2       6.0      6.2      6.2       6.0      6.4      6.4       6.0      6.4     6.4
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      5.0       5.0        3.0     5.0      5.0        4.0     4.0      4.0        4.0     4.0      4.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                240       720       612       148      815      693       206      193      164       519      517     439
v/s Ratio Prot                    0.01     0.46               c0.06     0.31                0.02    0.04              c0.30     0.09
v/s Ratio Perm                    0.17               0.04     c0.57              0.06       0.04            c0.15       0.17             0.05
v/c Ratio                         0.38     1.02      0.08       1.26    0.68     0.12       0.42    0.36     1.42       1.21    0.28     0.15
Uniform Delay, d1                 26.1     44.1      25.3       37.4    34.5     25.2       61.1    66.7     71.7       45.5    41.7     40.0
Progression Factor                1.00     1.00      1.00       0.84    0.80     1.56       1.00    1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              1.0     39.3       0.3     144.5      2.8      0.2        1.9     1.5    221.4     109.9      0.4      0.2
Delay (s)                         27.1     83.4      25.5     175.7     30.5     39.4       63.0    68.3    293.1     155.4     42.1     40.2
Level of Service                     C        F         C          F       C        D          E       E        F          F       D        D
Approach Delay (s)                         71.0                         61.4                       227.2                       113.6
Approach LOS                                  E                            E                           F                           F
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            105.5         HCM Level of Service                         F
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          1.23
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            160.0         Sum of lost time (s)                      18.4
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  103.8%          ICU Level of Service                        G
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2011                                                                                                                 Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                      Page 2




                                                                                                                                                 Page 316
2: SR 714 & SW 42 Ave                                                                          2031 - AM Peak
Queues


Lane Group                    EBL    EBT       WBL      WBT     WBR      NBT     SBT    SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)           99  1547          8     1121     328       54      91     26
v/c Ratio                     0.33   1.10      0.07      0.78   0.25     1.10    1.30   0.31
Control Delay                  0.7   58.8       2.0      10.3     0.5   209.4   262.5   33.9
Queue Delay                    0.0    0.0       0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0
Total Delay                    0.7   58.8       2.0      10.3     0.5   209.4   262.5   33.9
Queue Length 50th (ft)           3 ~1848          1      361        0    ~50    ~122       0
Queue Length 95th (ft)         m2 m#1602        m1       446      m4     #55    #204      26
Internal Link Dist (ft)             2582                  858             402     409
Turn Bay Length (ft)          450               150               540                    470
Base Capacity (vph)           298   1403        109     1445    1292       49      70     84
Starvation Cap Reductn           0      0          0        0       0       0       0      0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0      0          0        0       0       0       0      0
Storage Cap Reductn              0      0          0        0       0       0       0      0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.33   1.10       0.07     0.78    0.25    1.10    1.30   0.31
Intersection Summary
~ Volume exceeds capacity, queue is theoretically infinite.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




11/6/2011                                                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                             Page 3




                                                                                                                      Page 317
2: SR 714 & SW 42 Ave                                                                                                2031 - AM Peak
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis


Movement                            EBL     EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT       WBR        NBL     NBT      NBR      SBL     SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         79     1232        0          6      893       261      16          0      9      66         0       19
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                1700      1700     1700      1900     1900      1900     1900     1900     1900    1900     1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                 5.5       5.8                5.5       5.8       5.8               6.0                      6.0      6.0
Lane Util. Factor                  1.00      1.00               1.00     1.00      1.00              1.00                      1.00     1.00
Frt                                1.00      1.00               1.00     1.00      0.85              0.95                      1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                      0.95      1.00               0.95     1.00      1.00              0.97                      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                 1524      1604               1703     1792      1524              1719                      1863     1583
Flt Permitted                     0.17       1.00              0.03      1.00     1.00               0.55                      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   268     1604                  56    1792      1524                975                     1863     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF              0.86      0.86    0.86       0.86     0.86      0.86     0.50     0.50     0.50    0.78     0.78     0.78
Growth Factor (vph)             108%       108%     108%     108%      108%      108%      108%    108%      108%    108%    108%     108%
Adj. Flow (vph)                      99     1547        0          8    1121        328       35         0      19      91        0       26
RTOR Reduction (vph)                   0        0       0          0         0       64        0       13        0       0        0       25
Lane Group Flow (vph)                99     1547        0          8    1121       264         0       41        0       0       91        1
Heavy Vehicles (%)                  6%        6%      6%         6%       6%        6%       2%       2%       2%      2%       2%       2%
Turn Type                       pm+pt                        pm+pt               Perm      Perm                      Perm             Perm
Protected Phases                       1       6                   5        2                           4                        8
Permitted Phases                       6                           2                  2       4                         8                 8
Actuated Green, G (s)            142.2     135.5              130.2    129.0     129.0               6.0                       6.0      6.0
Effective Green, g (s)           142.2     135.5              130.2    129.0     129.0               6.0                       6.0      6.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.89       0.85               0.81     0.81      0.81             0.04                      0.04     0.04
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5      5.8                5.5      5.8       5.8              6.0                       6.0      6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)               5.0       5.0                5.0      5.0       5.0              4.0                       4.0      4.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 299      1358                  58    1445      1229                37                        70       59
v/s Ratio Prot                   c0.02     c0.96                0.00    0.63
v/s Ratio Perm                     0.28                         0.11              0.17              0.04                      0.05     0.00
v/c Ratio                          0.33     1.14                0.14    0.78      0.22              1.12                      1.30     0.02
Uniform Delay, d1                  11.6     12.2                51.8     8.0       3.6              77.0                      77.0     74.2
Progression Factor                 0.37     0.71                0.90    0.85      0.54              1.00                      1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2               0.1     63.6                 1.6     3.0       0.3             186.3                     207.5      0.2
Delay (s)                           4.4     72.3                48.2     9.8       2.3             263.3                     284.5     74.3
Level of Service                       A       E                   D       A         A                 F                         F        E
Approach Delay (s)                          68.3                         8.3                       263.3                     237.8
Approach LOS                                   E                           A                           F                         F
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             50.8         HCM Level of Service                         D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          1.15
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            160.0         Sum of lost time (s)                       17.3
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   97.3%          ICU Level of Service                          F
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2011                                                                                                                Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                     Page 4




                                                                                                                                               Page 318
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd                                                                        2031 - AM Peak
Queues


Lane Group                    EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT        WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)         967      579       64      232     528         60   184    475     475    173     326      856
v/c Ratio                     0.78     0.37    0.09     0.50    0.88       0.19   0.58   0.67   0.84    0.71    0.49    0.84
Control Delay                 33.8     20.5     3.2     29.9    80.1       13.2   49.1   63.8   34.6    59.6    61.0    31.0
Queue Delay                    0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0
Total Delay                   33.8     20.5     3.2     29.9    80.1       13.2   49.1   63.8   34.6    59.6    61.0    31.0
Queue Length 50th (ft)        375      171        1       48     283          0   151    253     187    141     170      665
Queue Length 95th (ft)       m365     m165      m4        76     353         43   190    267     253    189     200      814
Internal Link Dist (ft)                427                       454                      502                    595
Turn Bay Length (ft)                             315     240                410    300                   400              500
Base Capacity (vph)           1244    1552      726     470         643    336    324    841    613     245     768     1017
Starvation Cap Reductn            0       0        0       0           0      0      0      0      0       0       0        0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0       0        0       0           0      0      0      0      0       0       0        0
Storage Cap Reductn               0       0        0       0           0      0      0      0      0       0       0        0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.78    0.37     0.09    0.49        0.82   0.18   0.57   0.56   0.77    0.71    0.42     0.84
Intersection Summary
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




11/6/2011                                                                                                  Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                       Page 5




                                                                                                                                Page 319
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd                                                                                    2031 - AM Peak
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis


Movement                            EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR        NBL      NBT      NBR       SBL      SBT       SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                      890       533        59     209      476        54      151      390      390       149      281       737
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1700      1700     1700     1900     1900     1900      1900     1900     1900     1900      1900      1900
Total Lost time (s)                6.0       6.3      6.3      5.5      5.8      5.8       5.8      6.0      6.0       5.9      5.9       6.0
Lane Util. Factor                 0.97      0.95     1.00     0.97     0.95     1.00      1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00      0.95      1.00
Frt                               1.00      1.00     0.85     1.00     1.00     0.85      1.00     1.00     0.85     1.00      1.00      0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95      1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95      1.00      1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                2956      3047     1363     3303     3406     1524      1770     3539     1583     1770      3539      1583
Flt Permitted                     0.13      1.00     1.00     0.43     1.00     1.00      0.38     1.00     1.00     0.28      1.00      1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  405     3047     1363     1509     3406     1524        707    3539     1583       531     3539      1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.93      0.93     0.93     0.91     0.91     0.91      0.83     0.83     0.83     0.87      0.87      0.87
Growth Factor (vph)             101%      101%     101%     101%     101%     101%      101%     101%     101%     101%      101%      101%
Adj. Flow (vph)                    967       579       64      232      528       60       184      475      475      173       326      856
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0         0       31        0        0       49         0        0     248          0        0        46
Lane Group Flow (vph)             967       579        33     232      528        11      184      475      227       173      326       810
Heavy Vehicles (%)                 6%        6%       6%       6%       6%       6%        2%       2%       2%       2%        2%        2%
Turn Type                       pm+pt              Perm     pm+pt             Perm      pm+pt             Perm     pm+pt              pm+ov
Protected Phases                     3        8                  7       4                   1       6                   5       2          3
Permitted Phases                     8                  8        4                 4         6                 6         2                  2
Actuated Green, G (s)            96.5     81.5      81.5     37.9     28.4     28.4      47.8     32.3     32.3      43.0     30.0      92.6
Effective Green, g (s)           96.5     81.5      81.5     37.9     28.4     28.4      47.8     32.3     32.3      43.0     30.0      92.6
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.60     0.51     0.51     0.24     0.18     0.18      0.30     0.20     0.20      0.27     0.19       0.58
Clearance Time (s)                 6.0      6.3       6.3      5.5      5.8      5.8       5.8      6.0      6.0       5.9      5.9       6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0       3.0      3.0        3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)               1242     1552       694      464      605      271       314      714      320       243      664       916
v/s Ratio Prot                    0.30     0.19               0.03   c0.16                0.06    0.13              c0.06     0.09     c0.35
v/s Ratio Perm                   0.16               0.02     0.09              0.01      0.12              0.14      0.13               0.17
v/c Ratio                         0.78     0.37     0.05      0.50    0.87     0.04       0.59    0.67     0.71      0.71     0.49       0.88
Uniform Delay, d1                 34.1     23.8     19.7      50.1    64.0     54.5       44.3    58.9     59.5      48.0     58.2       29.1
Progression Factor                0.94     0.83     0.65      1.00    1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00       1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              1.1      0.1      0.0       0.9    13.1      0.1        2.8     4.9     12.5       9.5      2.6      10.1
Delay (s)                         33.2     19.8     12.9      51.0    77.2     54.6       47.1    63.7     72.0      57.4     60.8       39.2
Level of Service                     C        B        B         D       E        D          D       E        E          E       E          D
Approach Delay (s)                         27.6                       68.1                        64.5                        46.7
Approach LOS                                  C                          E                           E                           D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            48.1        HCM Level of Service                         D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.85
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           160.0        Sum of lost time (s)                      23.7
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  82.5%         ICU Level of Service                         E
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2011                                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                    Page 6




                                                                                                                                                Page 320
Arterial Level of Service                                                      2031 - AM Peak
Arterial Level of Service: EB SR 714
                       Arterial    Flow   Running   Signal     Travel   Dist     Arterial    Arterial
Cross Street           Class      Speed     Time    Delay    Time (s)   (mi)     Speed          LOS
SW Citrus Blvd         I             50      50.8   196.3      247.1    0.70        10.3           F
SW 42 Ave              I             45      44.4   121.4      165.8    0.50        10.9           F
TPK NB Off Ramp        I             45      49.3     35.7       85.0   0.62        26.1           D
Total                  I                    144.5   353.4      497.9    1.83        13.2           F

Arterial Level of Service: WB SR 714
                       Arterial    Flow   Running   Signal     Travel   Dist     Arterial    Arterial
Cross Street           Class      Speed     Time    Delay    Time (s)   (mi)     Speed          LOS
SW Martin Downs Blvd   II            45      29.4     66.4       95.8   0.30        11.2           F
SW 42 Ave              II            45      49.3     30.3       79.6   0.62        27.9           C
SW Citrus Blvd         II            45      44.4     65.9     110.3    0.50        16.5           E
Total                  II                   123.1   162.6      285.7    1.42        17.9           D




                                                                                    Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                             Page 1



                                                                                                    Page 321
1: SR 714 & SW Citrus Blvd                                                                               2031 - PM PEAK
Queues


Lane Group                    EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL      WBT        WBR     NBL    NBT    NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)           24     653       80     306      705        482      95     97    296     134       36      36
v/c Ratio                     0.12     0.76    0.10     0.75     0.71      0.47    0.34   0.55   0.71     0.49    0.17    0.17
Control Delay                 19.4     35.0     4.0     43.1     28.7        8.0   43.4   67.6   15.8     48.9    52.0    16.9
Queue Delay                    0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Total Delay                   19.4     35.0     4.0     43.1     28.7        8.0   43.4   67.6   15.8     48.9    52.0    16.9
Queue Length 50th (ft)          11     471        0     183      625        126      64     80       0      93      27       0
Queue Length 95th (ft)          24     524       23    m145     m438       m25     105    128      69     127       52      25
Internal Link Dist (ft)                902                      2582                       586                     496
Turn Bay Length (ft)           420               420     285                 365    240           575      365             365
Base Capacity (vph)           230      867      779     406         988    1025    282    295    500      275     328     309
Starvation Cap Reductn           0        0        0       0           0       0      0      0      0        0       0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0        0        0       0           0       0      0      0      0        0       0       0
Storage Cap Reductn              0        0        0       0           0       0      0      0      0        0       0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.10     0.75     0.10    0.75        0.71    0.47   0.34   0.33   0.59     0.49    0.11    0.12
Intersection Summary
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




11/6/2011                                                                                                    Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                         Page 1




                                                                                                                                  Page 322
1: SR 714 & SW Citrus Blvd                                                                                         2031 - PM PEAK
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis


Movement                            EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR        NBL      NBT      NBR       SBL      SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        19       514       63      269      620      424        76       77      236        97       26       26
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900      1900     1900     1700     1700     1700      1900     1900     1900     1900      1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                6.0       6.2      6.2      6.0      6.2      6.2       6.0      6.4      6.4       6.0      4.1      4.1
Lane Util. Factor                 1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00
Frt                               1.00      1.00     0.85     1.00     1.00     0.85      1.00     1.00     0.85     1.00      1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95      1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1703      1792     1524     1524     1604     1363      1770     1863     1583     1770      1863     1583
Flt Permitted                     0.15      1.00     1.00     0.24     1.00     1.00      0.62     1.00     1.00     0.69      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  272     1792     1524       379    1604     1363      1156     1863     1583     1293      1863     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.85      0.85     0.85     0.95     0.95     0.95      0.86     0.86     0.86     0.78      0.78     0.78
Growth Factor (vph)             108%      108%     108%     108%     108%     108%      108%     108%     108%     108%      108%     108%
Adj. Flow (vph)                     24       653       80      306      705      482        95       97      296      134        36       36
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0         0       44        0        0     197          0        0     266          0        0       32
Lane Group Flow (vph)               24      653        36     306      705      285         95       97       30      134        36        4
Heavy Vehicles (%)                 6%        6%       6%       6%       6%       6%        2%       2%       2%       2%        2%       2%
Turn Type                       pm+pt              Perm     pm+pt             Perm      pm+pt             Perm     pm+pt              Perm
Protected Phases                     1        6                  5       2                   7       4                   3       8
Permitted Phases                     6                  6        2                 2         4                 4         8                8
Actuated Green, G (s)            59.2      59.2     59.2     77.1     76.9     76.9      26.3     13.0     13.0      24.6     13.3     13.3
Effective Green, g (s)           59.2      59.2     59.2     77.1     76.9     76.9      26.3     13.0     13.0      24.6     13.3     13.3
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.46      0.46     0.46     0.59     0.59     0.59      0.20     0.10     0.10      0.19     0.10     0.10
Clearance Time (s)                 6.0       6.2      6.2      6.0      6.2      6.2       6.0      6.4      6.4       6.0      4.1     4.1
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                170       816      694      418      949      806       297      186      158       286      191     162
v/s Ratio Prot                    0.00    c0.36               0.12   c0.44                0.03   c0.05              c0.04     0.02
v/s Ratio Perm                   0.06               0.02     0.31              0.21      0.03              0.02      0.05              0.00
v/c Ratio                         0.14     0.80     0.05      0.73    0.74     0.35       0.32    0.52     0.19      0.47     0.19     0.02
Uniform Delay, d1                 24.2     30.3     19.8      33.6    19.3     13.7       43.7    55.5     53.7      46.2     53.4     52.5
Progression Factor                1.00     1.00     1.00      1.33    1.40     5.77       1.00    1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              0.4      8.1      0.1       0.6     0.5      0.1        0.6     2.6      0.6       1.2      0.5      0.1
Delay (s)                         24.5     38.4     19.9      45.3    27.6     79.2       44.3    58.2     54.2      47.4     53.9     52.6
Level of Service                     C        D        B         D       C        E          D       E        D          D       D        D
Approach Delay (s)                         36.0                       47.9                        53.1                        49.5
Approach LOS                                  D                          D                           D                           D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            45.8        HCM Level of Service                         D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.66
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           130.0        Sum of lost time (s)                      12.2
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  73.9%         ICU Level of Service                        D
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2011                                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                    Page 2




                                                                                                                                               Page 323
2: SR 714 & SW 42 Ave                                                                             2031 - PM PEAK
Queues


Lane Group                    EBL      EBT     WBL       WBT    WBR        NBT     SBT    SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)           34    1087       10     1507      95         32    465     159
v/c Ratio                     0.25     0.90    0.08      1.47   0.11       0.25    1.16   0.35
Control Delay                 11.9     35.1     7.4     242.3    2.5       33.6   141.1     9.7
Queue Delay                    0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0     0.0
Total Delay                   11.9     35.1     7.4     242.3    2.5       33.6   141.1     9.7
Queue Length 50th (ft)           5     902        2    ~1792       0         12   ~463        5
Queue Length 95th (ft)        m12    #1242        8    #2067      23         21   #424      21
Internal Link Dist (ft)               2582                870               402     409
Turn Bay Length (ft)          450               150                  540                   470
Base Capacity (vph)           178     1211      172     1023        903    126     401    459
Starvation Cap Reductn           0        0        0        0          0      0       0      0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0        0        0        0          0      0       0      0
Storage Cap Reductn              0        0        0        0          0      0       0      0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.19     0.90     0.06     1.47       0.11   0.25    1.16   0.35
Intersection Summary
~ Volume exceeds capacity, queue is theoretically infinite.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




11/6/2011                                                                                            Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                 Page 3




                                                                                                                          Page 324
2: SR 714 & SW 42 Ave                                                                                               2031 - PM PEAK
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis


Movement                            EBL    EBT       EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR        NBL     NBT      NBR      SBL     SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         29      916        0          9    1326        84       9          0      7     293         0      100
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900      1900      1900     1700      1700     1700     1900     1900     1900    1900     1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                 5.5      5.8                 5.5      5.8      5.8                6.0                      6.0       6.0
Lane Util. Factor                 1.00      1.00               1.00      1.00     1.00              1.00                      1.00     1.00
Frt                               1.00      1.00               1.00      1.00     0.85              0.94                      1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95      1.00               0.95      1.00     1.00              0.97                      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1703      1792               1524      1604     1363              1705                      1863     1583
Flt Permitted                     0.05      1.00              0.06       1.00    1.00               0.30                      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                    86    1792                 100     1604     1363                534                     1863     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.91      0.91     0.91      0.95      0.95     0.95     0.54     0.54     0.54    0.68     0.68     0.68
Growth Factor (vph)             108%      108%      108%     108%      108%     108%      108%    108%      108%    108%    108%     108%
Adj. Flow (vph)                      34    1087         0        10     1507        95       18         0      14     465        0      159
RTOR Reduction (vph)                  0        0        0          0        0       36        0       11        0       0        0      118
Lane Group Flow (vph)               34     1087         0        10     1507        59        0       21        0       0     465        41
Heavy Vehicles (%)                 6%        6%       6%        6%        6%       6%       2%       2%       2%      2%       2%       2%
Turn Type                       pm+pt                        pm+pt              Perm      Perm                      Perm             Perm
Protected Phases                      1       6                    5       2                           4                        8
Permitted Phases                      6                            2                 2       4                         8                 8
Actuated Green, G (s)             87.4     83.4                82.0     80.7     80.7              28.0                      28.0     28.0
Effective Green, g (s)            87.4     83.4                82.0     80.7     80.7              28.0                      28.0     28.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.67     0.64                0.63     0.62     0.62              0.22                      0.22     0.22
Clearance Time (s)                  5.5     5.8                  5.5      5.8      5.8              6.0                       6.0      6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      3.0                 3.0      3.0      3.0               3.0                       3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 108    1150                   77      996      846              115                       401      341
v/s Ratio Prot                   c0.01    c0.61                0.00    c0.94
v/s Ratio Perm                    0.20                         0.08              0.04              0.04                      0.25     0.03
v/c Ratio                         0.31     0.95                0.13     1.51     0.07              0.18                      1.16     0.12
Uniform Delay, d1                 31.8     21.2                24.3     24.6      9.8              41.7                      51.0     41.1
Progression Factor                1.35     1.47                1.00     1.00     1.00              1.00                      1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2               1.3    13.2                  0.8   236.1      0.2               0.8                      96.2      0.2
Delay (s)                         44.4     44.5                25.1    260.7      9.9              42.4                     147.2     41.2
Level of Service                      D       D                   C        F        A                 D                         F        D
Approach Delay (s)                         44.5                        244.5                       42.4                     120.2
Approach LOS                                  D                            F                          D                         F
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            153.5         HCM Level of Service                        F
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          1.46
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            130.0         Sum of lost time (s)                      23.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  118.3%          ICU Level of Service                        H
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2011                                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                    Page 4




                                                                                                                                               Page 325
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd                                                                         2031 - PM PEAK
Queues


Lane Group                    EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL        WBT     WBR     NBL    NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT      SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)         824     489       160     563        521     111      99   281      204     167     464     1048
v/c Ratio                     0.90    0.50     0.29    0.75       0.81    0.30    0.28   0.29    0.35     0.36    0.43     1.21
Control Delay                 42.3    39.8       5.9   31.2       60.3      9.7   28.2   41.3      7.6    28.7    40.7    123.9
Queue Delay                    0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0        0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
Total Delay                   42.3    39.8       5.9   31.2       60.3      9.7   28.2   41.3      7.6    28.7    40.7    123.9
Queue Length 50th (ft)        259     180          0    150        219        0     49     97        0      87    163     ~720
Queue Length 95th (ft)        339     228        42     205        321      52    110    175       69     166     260    #1061
Internal Link Dist (ft)               427                          457                    502                      584
Turn Bay Length (ft)                            315      240               410     300                     400             500
Base Capacity (vph)          1120     1546     779      761       924     491     469    1067    620      520    1070     868
Starvation Cap Reductn           0        0       0        0         0       0       0       0      0        0       0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0        0       0        0         0       0       0       0      0        0       0       0
Storage Cap Reductn              0        0       0        0         0       0       0       0      0        0       0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.74     0.32    0.21     0.74      0.56    0.23    0.21    0.26   0.33     0.32    0.43    1.21
Intersection Summary
~ Volume exceeds capacity, queue is theoretically infinite.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.




11/6/2011                                                                                                    Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                         Page 5




                                                                                                                                  Page 326
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd                                                                                   2031 - PM PEAK
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis


Movement                            EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR        NBL      NBT      NBR      SBU      SBL      SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                       709      416      136      507      469      100         89     253      184       11     131       399
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900      1900     1900     1700     1700     1700      1900     1900     1900     1900    1900      1900
Total Lost time (s)                 6.0      6.3      6.3      5.5      5.8      5.8       5.8      6.0      6.0               5.9      5.9
Lane Util. Factor                 0.97      0.95     1.00     0.97     0.95     1.00      1.00     0.95     1.00             1.00      0.95
Frt                               1.00      1.00     0.85     1.00     1.00     0.85      1.00     1.00     0.85             1.00      1.00
Flt Protected                     0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00     1.00              0.95      1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                3303      3406     1524     2956     3047     1363      1770     3539     1583             1770      3539
Flt Permitted                     0.20      1.00     1.00     0.47     1.00     1.00      0.41     1.00     1.00             0.50      1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  696     3406     1524     1474     3047     1363        772    3539     1583               928     3539
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.86      0.86     0.86     0.91     0.91     0.91      0.91     0.91     0.91    0.86     0.86      0.86
Growth Factor (vph)             100%      101%     101%     101%     101%     101%      101%     101%     101%     101%    101%      100%
Adj. Flow (vph)                    824       489      160      563      521      111        99      281      204      13      154      464
RTOR Reduction (vph)                  0        0     114         0        0       87         0        0     147        0         0        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)              824      489        46     563      521        24        99     281        57       0     167       464
Heavy Vehicles (%)                 6%        6%       6%       6%       6%       6%        2%       2%       2%      2%       2%        2%
Turn Type                       pm+pt              Perm     pm+pt             Perm      pm+pt             Perm     pm+pt   pm+pt
Protected Phases                      3       8                  7       4                   1       6                 5         5       2
Permitted Phases                      8                 8        4                 4         6                 6       2         2
Actuated Green, G (s)             62.6     38.0     38.0     46.8     27.7     27.7      47.0     36.4     36.4              53.2    39.6
Effective Green, g (s)            62.6     38.0     38.0     46.8     27.7     27.7      47.0     36.4     36.4              53.2    39.6
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.48     0.29     0.29     0.36     0.21     0.21      0.36     0.28     0.28              0.41    0.30
Clearance Time (s)                  6.0      6.3      6.3      5.5      5.8      5.8       5.8      6.0      6.0               5.9     5.9
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0                3.0    3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 919      990      443      744      645      289       358      985      441               465    1071
v/s Ratio Prot                   c0.20     0.14               0.11    0.17                0.02    0.08                      c0.04    0.13
v/s Ratio Perm                   c0.23              0.03      0.16             0.02       0.08             0.04              0.11
v/c Ratio                         0.90     0.49     0.10      0.76    0.81     0.08       0.28    0.29     0.13              0.36     0.43
Uniform Delay, d1                 30.0     38.4     34.0      33.3    49.0     41.3       28.6    37.0     35.3              25.6     36.6
Progression Factor                1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00              1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2             11.3      0.4      0.1       4.4     7.3      0.1        0.4     0.2      0.1                0.5     0.3
Delay (s)                         41.2     38.8     34.1      37.7    56.4     41.5       29.0    37.2     35.5              26.0     36.9
Level of Service                     D        D        C         D       E        D          C       D        D                 C        D
Approach Delay (s)                         39.7                       46.2                        35.2                               154.7
Approach LOS                                  D                          D                           D                                   F
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            79.9        HCM Level of Service                         E
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         1.00
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           130.8        Sum of lost time (s)                      17.8
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  91.7%         ICU Level of Service                         F
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2011                                                                                                              Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                   Page 6




                                                                                                                                              Page 327
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd                2031 - PM PEAK
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis


Movement                  SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)               892
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900
Total Lost time (s)         5.9
Lane Util. Factor          1.00
Frt                        0.85
Flt Protected              1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         1583
Flt Permitted              1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF      0.86
Growth Factor (vph)      101%
Adj. Flow (vph)           1048
RTOR Reduction (vph)       389
Lane Group Flow (vph)      659
Heavy Vehicles (%)          2%
Turn Type                Perm
Protected Phases
Permitted Phases              2
Actuated Green, G (s)     39.6
Effective Green, g (s)    39.6
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.30
Clearance Time (s)          5.9
Vehicle Extension (s)      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)         479
v/s Ratio Prot
v/s Ratio Perm           c0.42
v/c Ratio                 1.38
Uniform Delay, d1         45.6
Progression Factor        1.00
Incremental Delay, d2    181.8
Delay (s)                227.4
Level of Service             F
Approach Delay (s)
Approach LOS
Intersection Summary




11/6/2011                                          Synchro 7 - Report
                                                               Page 7




                                                                        Page 328
Arterial Level of Service                                                      201 - PM PEAK
Arterial Level of Service: EB SR 714
                       Arterial    Flow   Running   Signal     Travel   Dist     Arterial    Arterial
Cross Street           Class      Speed     Time    Delay    Time (s)   (mi)     Speed          LOS
SW Citrus Blvd         I             50      50.8     35.0       85.8   0.70        29.6           C
SW 42 Ave              I             45      44.4     35.1       79.5   0.50        22.8           D
TPK NB Off Ramp        I             45      49.3     39.6       88.9   0.62        24.9           D
Total                  I                    144.5   109.7      254.2    1.83        25.8           D

Arterial Level of Service: WB SR 714
                       Arterial    Flow   Running   Signal     Travel   Dist     Arterial    Arterial
Cross Street           Class      Speed     Time    Delay    Time (s)   (mi)     Speed          LOS
SW Martin Downs Blvd   II            45      29.4     60.6       90.0   0.30        11.9           F
SW 42 Ave              II            45      49.3   242.3      291.6    0.62         7.6           F
SW Citrus Blvd         II            45      44.4     28.7       73.1   0.50        24.8           C
Total                  II                   123.1   331.6      454.7    1.42        11.2           F




                                                                                    Synchro 8 Report
                                                                                             Page 1



                                                                                                    Page 329
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
1: SR 714 & SW Citrus Blvd                                                                                                        11/6/2011



Movement                            EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR        NBL      NBT      NBR       SBL      SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        48       391       60       88      263      304        47       38      207      345        79     119
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1700      1700     1900     1900     1900     1900      1900     1900     1900     1700      1700     1700
Total Lost time (s)                6.0       6.2      6.2      6.0      6.2      6.2       6.0      6.4      6.4       6.0      6.4      6.4
Lane Util. Factor                 1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00
Frt                               1.00      1.00     0.85     1.00     1.00     0.85      1.00     1.00     0.85     1.00      1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95      1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1524      1604     1524     1703     1792     1524      1770     1863     1583     1583      1667     1417
Flt Permitted                     0.34      1.00     1.00     0.36     1.00     1.00      0.69     1.00     1.00     0.49      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  547     1604     1524       645    1792     1524      1290     1863     1583       821     1667     1417
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.82      0.82     0.82     0.73     0.73     0.73      0.84     0.84     0.84     0.85      0.85     0.85
Growth Factor (vph)             108%      108%     108%     108%     108%     108%      108%     108%     108%     108%      108%     108%
Adj. Flow (vph)                     63       515       79      130      389      450        60       49      266      438       100     151
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0         0       17        0        0       69         0        0     245          0        0       28
Lane Group Flow (vph)               63      515        62     130      389      381         60       49       21      438      100      123
Heavy Vehicles (%)                 6%        6%       6%       6%       6%       6%        2%       2%       2%       2%        2%       2%
Turn Type                       pm+pt              Perm     pm+pt             Perm      pm+pt             Perm     pm+pt              Perm
Protected Phases                     1        6                  5       2                   7       4                   3       8
Permitted Phases                     6                  6        2                 2         4                 4         8                8
Actuated Green, G (s)            72.9      72.9     72.9     73.5     73.3     73.3      19.8     12.7     12.7      61.3     48.2     48.2
Effective Green, g (s)           72.9      72.9     72.9     73.5     73.3     73.3      19.8     12.7     12.7      61.3     48.2     48.2
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.46      0.46     0.46     0.46     0.46     0.46      0.12     0.08     0.08      0.38     0.30     0.30
Clearance Time (s)                 6.0       6.2      6.2      6.0      6.2      6.2       6.0      6.4      6.4       6.0      6.4     6.4
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      5.0      5.0       3.0     5.0      5.0        4.0     4.0      4.0       4.0      4.0      4.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                291       731      694      344      821      698       181      148      126       517      502     427
v/s Ratio Prot                    0.01    c0.32               0.02    0.22                0.01    0.03              c0.23     0.06
v/s Ratio Perm                   0.09               0.04     0.16             c0.25      0.03              0.01     c0.10              0.09
v/c Ratio                         0.22     0.70     0.09      0.38    0.47     0.55       0.33    0.33     0.17      0.85     0.20     0.29
Uniform Delay, d1                 26.6     34.9     24.7      38.7    30.0     31.3       63.6    69.6     68.7      42.3     41.6     42.8
Progression Factor                1.00     1.00     1.00      0.58    0.59     0.46       1.00    1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              0.4      5.6      0.3       0.6     1.8      2.8        1.5     1.8      0.9      12.7      0.3      0.5
Delay (s)                         27.0     40.5     25.0      23.2    19.6     17.0       65.1    71.4     69.6      54.9     41.8     43.3
Level of Service                     C        D        C         C       B        B          E       E        E         D        D        D
Approach Delay (s)                         37.4                       18.9                        69.1                        50.5
Approach LOS                                  D                          B                           E                           D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            38.5        HCM Level of Service                         D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.72
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           160.0        Sum of lost time (s)                      12.2
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  77.3%         ICU Level of Service                        D
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




Opt 3 - C160;Splits,Offsets Optimized 10/17/2011 AM Peak - Existing                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                    Page 2




                                                                                                                                               Page 330
Queues
2: SR 714 & SW 42 Ave                                                                                  11/6/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     WBL      WBT     WBR     NBT     SBT    SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)            69    1083        5      785     230      37      64     18
v/c Ratio                      0.14     0.80    0.02     0.55    0.18    0.36    0.63   0.15
Control Delay                   1.5      7.3     2.0       5.7     0.2   61.4    98.1   29.4
Queue Delay                     0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0
Total Delay                     1.5      7.3     2.0       5.7     0.2   61.4    98.1   29.4
Queue Length 50th (ft)            6     147        1      145        0     24      65      0
Queue Length 95th (ft)          m6      482      m1       346      m0      30   #108      22
Internal Link Dist (ft)                2582               858             402     409
Turn Bay Length (ft)           450              150                540                   470
Base Capacity (vph)            482     1356     317      1455    1280    105    105     125
Starvation Cap Reductn            0        0       0         0       0      0      0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0        0       0         0       0      0      0       0
Storage Cap Reductn               0        0       0         0       0      0      0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.14     0.80    0.02      0.54    0.18   0.35   0.61    0.14
Intersection Summary
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




Opt 3 - C160;Splits,Offsets Optimized 10/17/2011 AM Peak - Existing                            Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                           Page 3




                                                                                                                    Page 331
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
2: SR 714 & SW 42 Ave                                                                                                             11/6/2011



Movement                            EBL     EBT      EBR      WBL       WBT       WBR        NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         55       862       0           4      625       183      11         0      6      46         0       13
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                1700      1700     1700      1900      1900      1900     1900     1900    1900    1900     1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                 5.5       5.8                 5.5       5.8       5.8              6.0                      6.0      6.0
Lane Util. Factor                  1.00      1.00               1.00      1.00      1.00              1.00                     1.00     1.00
Frt                                1.00      1.00               1.00      1.00      0.85              0.95                     1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                      0.95      1.00               0.95      1.00      1.00              0.97                     0.95     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                 1524      1604               1703      1792      1524              1719                     1770     1583
Flt Permitted                     0.32       1.00              0.18      1.00      1.00               0.77                     0.82     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   516     1604                 321     1792      1524              1358                     1535     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF              0.86      0.86    0.86       0.86      0.86      0.86     0.50     0.50    0.50    0.78     0.78     0.78
Growth Factor (vph)             108%       108%     108%     108%       108%      108%      108%    108%     108%    108%    108%     108%
Adj. Flow (vph)                      69     1083        0           5      785       230       24        0      13      64        0       18
RTOR Reduction (vph)                   0        0       0           0         0       52        0       12       0       0        0       17
Lane Group Flow (vph)                69     1083        0           5     785       178         0       25       0       0       64        1
Heavy Vehicles (%)                  6%        6%      6%         6%        6%        6%       2%       2%      2%      2%       2%       2%
Turn Type                       pm+pt                        pm+pt                Perm      Perm                     Perm             Perm
Protected Phases                       1       6                    5        2                          4                        8
Permitted Phases                       6                            2                  2       4                        8                  8
Actuated Green, G (s)            131.2     130.9              123.7     123.7     123.7              10.6                     10.6     10.6
Effective Green, g (s)           131.2     130.9              123.7     123.7     123.7              10.6                     10.6     10.6
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.82       0.82               0.77     0.77      0.77              0.07                     0.07     0.07
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5      5.8                 5.5      5.8       5.8              6.0                       6.0      6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)               5.0       5.0                5.0      5.0       5.0               4.0                      4.0      4.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 476      1312                 259     1385      1178                90                      102      105
v/s Ratio Prot                     0.01    c0.68                0.00    c0.44
v/s Ratio Perm                     0.11                         0.01               0.12              0.02                    c0.04     0.00
v/c Ratio                          0.14     0.83                0.02     0.57      0.15              0.28                     0.63     0.01
Uniform Delay, d1                    7.0     8.2                10.1      7.3       4.7              71.1                     72.8     69.8
Progression Factor                 0.41     0.50                0.54     0.72      0.00              1.00                     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2               0.2      4.1                  0.0     1.3       0.2               2.3                     12.9      0.1
Delay (s)                           3.0      8.2                  5.5     6.6       0.2              73.3                     85.7     69.9
Level of Service                       A       A                    A       A         A                 E                        F        E
Approach Delay (s)                           7.8                          5.1                        73.3                     82.2
Approach LOS                                   A                            A                           E                        F
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             10.4          HCM Level of Service                        B
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.82
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            160.0          Sum of lost time (s)                      17.6
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   72.7%           ICU Level of Service                        C
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




Opt 3 - C160;Splits,Offsets Optimized 10/17/2011 AM Peak - Existing                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                     Page 4




                                                                                                                                               Page 332
Queues
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd                                                                                  11/6/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT       WBR    NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)          588      405       45      162     370        42   129    332     332    121    229      599
v/c Ratio                      0.92     0.37    0.05     0.40    0.68      0.09   0.61   0.72   0.67    0.72   0.49    0.82
Control Delay                  50.4     15.6     4.4     27.0    64.2      13.7   66.3   75.8   12.8    77.3   67.5    14.6
Queue Delay                     0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0
Total Delay                    50.4     15.6     4.4     27.0    64.2      13.7   66.3   75.8   12.8    77.3   67.5    14.6
Queue Length 50th (ft)         524      182        1       80     371         0   115    178        0   108    119         0
Queue Length 95th (ft)        #783      247      m7       106     495        36   158    205      56    157    153        93
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 427                       454                     502                   595
Turn Bay Length (ft)                             315      240               410    300                   400            500
Base Capacity (vph)            648     1099     952      421        542    493    212    593    542     168    599     766
Starvation Cap Reductn            0        0       0        0          0      0      0      0      0       0      0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0        0       0        0          0      0      0      0      0       0      0       0
Storage Cap Reductn               0        0       0        0          0      0      0      0      0       0      0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.91     0.37    0.05     0.38       0.68   0.09   0.61   0.56   0.61    0.72   0.38    0.78
Intersection Summary
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




Opt 3 - C160;Splits,Offsets Optimized 10/17/2011 AM Peak - Existing                                       Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                      Page 5




                                                                                                                               Page 333
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd                                                                                                  11/6/2011



Movement                            EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR        NBL      NBT      NBR       SBL      SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                       541      373        41     146      333        38      106      273      273       104      197      516
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                1500     1900     1900     2400     2400     2400      1900     1900     1900     1900      1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                 6.0      6.3      6.3      5.5      5.8      5.8       5.8      6.0      6.0       5.9      5.9      5.9
Lane Util. Factor                  1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00
Frt                                1.00     1.00     0.85     1.00     1.00     0.85      1.00     1.00     0.85     1.00      1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                      0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                 1344     1792     1524     2151     2264     1925      1770     3539     1583     1770      3539     1583
Flt Permitted                      0.15     1.00     1.00     0.52     1.00     1.00      0.50     1.00     1.00     0.31      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   210    1792     1524     1187     2264     1925        923    3539     1583       581     3539     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF              0.93     0.93     0.93     0.91     0.91     0.91      0.83     0.83     0.83     0.87      0.87     0.87
Growth Factor (vph)             101%      101%     101%     101%     101%     101%      101%     101%     101%     101%      101%     101%
Adj. Flow (vph)                     588      405       45      162      370       42       129      332      332      121       229     599
RTOR Reduction (vph)                  0        0       17        0        0       32         0        0     289          0        0     520
Lane Group Flow (vph)              588      405        28     162      370        10      129      332        43      121      229        79
Heavy Vehicles (%)                  6%       6%       6%       6%       6%       6%        2%       2%       2%       2%        2%       2%
Turn Type                       pm+pt              Perm     pm+pt             Perm      pm+pt             Perm     pm+pt              Perm
Protected Phases                      3       8                  7       4                   1       6                   5       2
Permitted Phases                      8                 8        4                 4         6                 6         2                2
Actuated Green, G (s)            112.7    98.0      98.0     47.4     38.2     38.2      29.0     20.8     20.8      29.4     21.1     21.1
Effective Green, g (s)           112.7    98.0      98.0     47.4     38.2     38.2      29.0     20.8     20.8      29.4     21.1     21.1
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.70     0.61     0.61     0.30     0.24     0.24      0.18     0.13     0.13      0.18     0.13     0.13
Clearance Time (s)                  6.0     6.3       6.3      5.5      5.8      5.8       5.8      6.0      6.0       5.9      5.9     5.9
Vehicle Extension (s)               3.0     3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 637    1098       933      407      541      460       211      460      206       168      467     209
v/s Ratio Prot                   c0.40     0.23               0.02    0.16                0.03    0.09              c0.04     0.06
v/s Ratio Perm                   c0.25              0.02     0.10              0.01      0.08              0.03     c0.09              0.05
v/c Ratio                          0.92    0.37     0.03      0.40    0.68     0.02       0.61    0.72     0.21      0.72     0.49     0.38
Uniform Delay, d1                  34.5    15.5     12.2      45.9    55.4     46.6       58.7    66.8     62.2      58.7     64.5     63.5
Progression Factor                 1.01    0.91     1.13      1.00    1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2             15.2      0.7      0.0       0.6     6.9      0.1        5.2     5.5      0.5      14.1      0.8      1.1
Delay (s)                          50.2    14.8     13.9      46.5    62.3     46.7       63.9    72.3     62.8      72.8     65.3     64.6
Level of Service                      D       B        B         D       E        D          E       E        E          E       E        E
Approach Delay (s)                         34.8                       56.7                        67.0                        65.8
Approach LOS                                  C                          E                           E                           E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            54.9        HCM Level of Service                         D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.83
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           160.0        Sum of lost time (s)                      11.9
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  87.1%         ICU Level of Service                         E
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




Opt 3 - C160;Splits,Offsets Optimized 10/17/2011 AM Peak - Existing                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                    Page 6




                                                                                                                                               Page 334
Arterial Level of Service
                                                                                                            11/6/2011

Arterial Level of Service: EB SR 714
                          Arterial             Flow       Running     Signal     Travel   Dist   Arterial     Arterial
Cross Street              Class               Speed         Time      Delay    Time (s)   (mi)   Speed           LOS
SW Citrus Blvd            I                      50          50.8       40.3       91.1   0.70      27.9            C
SW 42 Ave                 I                      45          44.4        7.3       51.7   0.50      35.1            B
TPK NB Off Ramp           I                      45          49.3       15.6       64.9   0.62      34.2            B
Total                     I                                 144.5       63.2     207.7    1.83      31.6            C

Arterial Level of Service: WB SR 714
                          Arterial             Flow       Running     Signal     Travel   Dist   Arterial     Arterial
Cross Street              Class               Speed         Time      Delay    Time (s)   (mi)   Speed           LOS
SW Martin Downs Blvd      II                     45          29.4       64.2       93.6   0.30      11.4            F
SW 42 Ave                 II                     45          49.3        5.7       55.0   0.62      40.4            A
SW Citrus Blvd            II                     45          44.4       20.1       64.5   0.50      28.1            B
Total                     II                                123.1       90.0     213.1    1.42      23.9            C




Opt 3 - C160;Splits,Offsets Optimized 10/17/2011 AM Peak - Existing                               Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                              Page 7




                                                                                                                         Page 335
1: SR 714 & SW Citrus Blvd                                                      Opt 3 - C160;Splits,Offsets Optimized
Queues                                                                                                      PM Peak - Existing



Lane Group                    EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)           17     457       56      214     493     338         67     68    207      94      25      25
v/c Ratio                     0.04     0.43    0.06     0.35     0.44   0.32       0.28   0.51   0.68    0.53    0.18    0.18
Control Delay                 16.5     20.8     4.3       5.3     5.1     0.6      59.8   84.4   19.8    73.3    75.5    25.9
Queue Delay                    0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0
Total Delay                   16.5     20.8     4.3       5.3     5.1     0.6      59.8   84.4   19.8    73.3    75.5    25.9
Queue Length 50th (ft)           7     252        0       33       77       0        62     70       0     88      26       0
Queue Length 95th (ft)          21     370       21     m35     m115     m7        100    117      68    119       51      25
Internal Link Dist (ft)               3642                      2582                       586                    496
Turn Bay Length (ft)           420               420     285              365       240           575     365             365
Base Capacity (vph)           443     1062      926     642     1128    1059       244    403    505     180     430     384
Starvation Cap Reductn           0        0        0       0        0       0         0      0      0       0       0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0        0        0       0        0       0         0      0      0       0       0       0
Storage Cap Reductn              0        0        0       0        0       0         0      0      0       0       0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.04     0.43     0.06    0.33     0.44    0.32      0.27   0.17   0.41    0.52    0.06    0.07
Intersection Summary
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




11/6/2011                                                                                                   Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                        Page 1




                                                                                                                                 Page 336
1: SR 714 & SW Citrus Blvd                                                              Opt 3 - C160;Splits,Offsets Optimized
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                             PM Peak - Existing



Movement                            EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR         NBL     NBT      NBR       SBL      SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        13       360       44       188      434      297        53       54      165        68       18       18
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900      1900     1900      1700     1700     1700      1900     1900     1900     1900      1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                6.0       6.2      6.2       6.0      6.2      6.2       6.0      6.4      6.4       6.0      4.1      4.1
Lane Util. Factor                 1.00      1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00
Frt                               1.00      1.00     0.85      1.00     1.00     0.85      1.00     1.00     0.85     1.00      1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95      1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1703      1792     1524      1524     1604     1363      1770     1863     1583     1770      1863     1583
Flt Permitted                     0.38      1.00     1.00      0.46     1.00     1.00      0.74     1.00     1.00     0.71      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  677     1792     1524        736    1604     1363      1380     1863     1583     1328      1863     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.85      0.85     0.85      0.95     0.95     0.95      0.86     0.86     0.86     0.78      0.78     0.78
Growth Factor (vph)             108%      108%     108%     108%      108%     108%      108%     108%     108%     108%      108%     108%
Adj. Flow (vph)                     17       457       56       214      493      338        67       68      207        94       25       25
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0         0       24         0        0     108          0        0     192          0        0       23
Lane Group Flow (vph)               17      457        32      214      493      230         67       68       15       94        25        2
Heavy Vehicles (%)                 6%        6%       6%        6%       6%       6%        2%       2%       2%       2%        2%       2%
Turn Type                       pm+pt              Perm     pm+pt              Perm      pm+pt             Perm     pm+pt              Perm
Protected Phases                     1        6                   5       2                   7       4                   3       8
Permitted Phases                     6                  6         2                2          4                 4         8                8
Actuated Green, G (s)            91.3      91.3     91.3     109.2    109.0    109.0      24.2     11.4     11.4      22.9     11.9     11.9
Effective Green, g (s)           91.3      91.3     91.3     109.2    109.0    109.0      24.2     11.4     11.4      22.9     11.9     11.9
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.57      0.57     0.57      0.68      0.68    0.68      0.15     0.07     0.07      0.14     0.07     0.07
Clearance Time (s)                 6.0      6.2       6.2       6.0      6.2     6.2        6.0      6.4      6.4       6.0      4.1     4.1
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0      3.0     3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                412     1023       870       609     1093     929        240      133      113       220      139     118
v/s Ratio Prot                    0.00    c0.25                0.05   c0.31                0.02   c0.04              c0.03     0.01
v/s Ratio Perm                   0.02               0.02      0.19              0.17      0.02              0.01      0.03              0.00
v/c Ratio                         0.04     0.45     0.04       0.35    0.45     0.25       0.28    0.51     0.13      0.43     0.18     0.02
Uniform Delay, d1                 16.1     19.8     15.1       14.3    11.7      9.8       60.6    71.6     69.7      63.2     69.5     68.6
Progression Factor                1.00     1.00     1.00       0.37    0.37     0.20       1.00    1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              0.0      1.4      0.1        0.2     0.6      0.3        0.6     3.3      0.5       1.3      0.6      0.1
Delay (s)                         16.1     21.2     15.1        5.5     5.0      2.2       61.2    74.9     70.2      64.6     70.1     68.7
Level of Service                     B        C        B          A       A        A          E       E        E          E       E        E
Approach Delay (s)                         20.4                         4.2                        69.4                        66.2
Approach LOS                                  C                           A                           E                           E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            23.5         HCM Level of Service                         C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.47
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           160.0         Sum of lost time (s)                      24.8
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  58.4%          ICU Level of Service                         B
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2011                                                                                                                Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                     Page 2




                                                                                                                                                Page 337
2: SR 714 & SW 42 Ave                                                             Opt 3 - C160;Splits,Offsets Optimized
Queues                                                                                                    PM Peak - Existing



Lane Group                    EBL      EBT     WBL      WBT     WBR        NBT       SBT    SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)           24     761        7     1055      67         22      326     111
v/c Ratio                     0.12     0.59    0.02      0.94   0.07       0.12      0.93   0.29
Control Delay                  6.8      9.1     8.6      31.9    2.4       37.9      96.7   10.9
Queue Delay                    0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0    0.0        0.0       0.0     0.0
Total Delay                    6.8      9.1     8.6      31.9    2.4       37.9      96.7   10.9
Queue Length 50th (ft)           4     162        2     1003       2         11      343        0
Queue Length 95th (ft)        m13      238      m5     #1364    m11          20      333      18
Internal Link Dist (ft)               2582                870               402       409
Turn Bay Length (ft)          450               150                  540                     470
Base Capacity (vph)           206     1298      325     1122        973    179       350    387
Starvation Cap Reductn           0        0        0        0          0      0         0      0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0        0        0        0          0      0         0      0
Storage Cap Reductn              0        0        0        0          0      0         0      0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.12     0.59     0.02     0.94       0.07   0.12      0.93   0.29
Intersection Summary
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




11/6/2011                                                                                                Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                     Page 3




                                                                                                                               Page 338
2: SR 714 & SW 42 Ave                                                                      Opt 3 - C160;Splits,Offsets Optimized
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                              PM Peak - Existing



Movement                            EBL     EBT      EBR      WBL       WBT       WBR         NBL     NBT      NBR      SBL     SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         20       641       0           6      928        59        6          0      5     205         0       70
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                1900      1900     1900      1700      1700      1700      1900     1900     1900    1900     1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                 5.5       5.8                 5.5       5.8      5.8                 6.0                      6.0       6.0
Lane Util. Factor                  1.00      1.00               1.00      1.00      1.00               1.00                      1.00     1.00
Frt                                1.00      1.00               1.00      1.00      0.85               0.94                      1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                      0.95      1.00               0.95      1.00      1.00               0.97                      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                 1703      1792               1524      1604      1363               1702                      1863     1583
Flt Permitted                     0.12      1.00               0.25       1.00     1.00                0.52                      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   215     1792                 404     1604      1363                 910                     1863     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF              0.91      0.91    0.91       0.95      0.95      0.95      0.54     0.54     0.54    0.68     0.68     0.68
Growth Factor (vph)             108%       108%     108%     108%       108%      108%       108%    108%      108%    108%    108%     108%
Adj. Flow (vph)                      24       761       0           7    1055         67        12         0      10     326        0      111
RTOR Reduction (vph)                   0        0       0           0         0       22         0         8       0       0        0       90
Lane Group Flow (vph)                24      761        0           7    1055         45         0       14        0       0     326        21
Heavy Vehicles (%)                  6%        6%      6%         6%        6%        6%        2%       2%       2%      2%       2%       2%
Turn Type                       pm+pt                        pm+pt                Perm       Perm                      Perm             Perm
Protected Phases                       1       6                    5        2                            4                        8
Permitted Phases                       6                            2                  2        4                         8                  8
Actuated Green, G (s)            111.8     111.5              107.5     107.5     107.5               30.0                      30.0     30.0
Effective Green, g (s)           111.8     111.5              107.5     107.5     107.5               30.0                      30.0     30.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.70       0.70               0.67     0.67      0.67               0.19                      0.19     0.19
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5      5.8                 5.5      5.8       5.8                6.0                       6.0      6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)               3.0       3.0                3.0      3.0       3.0                3.0                       3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 199      1249                 280     1078       916                171                       349      297
v/s Ratio Prot                     0.00    c0.42                0.00    c0.66
v/s Ratio Perm                     0.08                         0.02               0.03               0.02                      0.18     0.01
v/c Ratio                          0.12     0.61                0.03     0.98      0.05               0.08                      0.93     0.07
Uniform Delay, d1                  39.7     12.8                12.6     25.2       8.9               53.6                      64.0     53.5
Progression Factor                 0.72     0.64                1.03     0.79      1.27               1.00                      1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2               0.3      2.1                  0.0    20.0       0.1                0.2                      31.5      0.1
Delay (s)                          28.7     10.2                13.0     39.7      11.4               53.8                      95.5     53.6
Level of Service                      C        B                    B       D         B                  D                         F        D
Approach Delay (s)                          10.8                         37.9                         53.8                      84.9
Approach LOS                                   B                            D                            D                         F
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             37.7          HCM Level of Service                          D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.93
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            160.0          Sum of lost time (s)                        11.8
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   87.7%           ICU Level of Service                           E
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2011                                                                                                                  Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                       Page 4




                                                                                                                                                  Page 339
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd                                                  Opt 3 - C160;Splits,Offsets Optimized
Queues                                                                                                        PM Peak - Existing



Lane Group                    EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT        WBR       NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)         537      342      112      394     364         78        69   196     143    117     328      733
v/c Ratio                     0.80     0.42    0.15     0.72     0.68      0.15      0.29   0.32   0.36    0.39    0.50    0.93
Control Delay                 32.1     31.1      5.8    26.4     55.7       9.1      43.8   56.9     9.2   47.1    59.7    30.8
Queue Delay                    0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0       0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0
Total Delay                   32.1     31.1      5.8    26.4     55.7       9.1      43.8   56.9     9.2   47.1    59.7    30.8
Queue Length 50th (ft)        381      234         9     188     344          0        54     96       0     95    164      163
Queue Length 95th (ft)      m#454     m340     m27       316    #519         43        88   121      56    129     184      279
Internal Link Dist (ft)                427                        457                        502                    584
Turn Bay Length (ft)                             315     240                410       300                   400             500
Base Capacity (vph)           672      811      751     641         535    507       235    942    526     301     953     867
Starvation Cap Reductn           0        0        0       0           0      0         0      0      0       0       0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0        0        0       0           0      0         0      0      0       0       0       0
Storage Cap Reductn              0        0        0       0           0      0         0      0      0       0       0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.80     0.42     0.15    0.61        0.68   0.15      0.29   0.21   0.27    0.39    0.34    0.85
Intersection Summary
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




11/6/2011                                                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                          Page 5




                                                                                                                                   Page 340
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd                                                       Opt 3 - C160;Splits,Offsets Optimized
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                          PM Peak - Existing



Movement                            EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR         NBL     NBT      NBR      SBU      SBL      SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                       457      291        95     355      328        70        62     177      129        8       92      279
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                1900     1900     1900     1700     1700     1700      1900     1900     1900     1900    1900      1900
Total Lost time (s)                 6.0      6.3      6.3      5.5      5.8      5.8       5.8      6.0      6.0               5.9      5.9
Lane Util. Factor                  1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     0.95     1.00             1.00      0.95
Frt                                1.00     1.00     0.85     1.00     1.00     0.85      1.00     1.00     0.85             1.00      1.00
Flt Protected                     0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00     1.00              0.95      1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                 1703     1792     1524     1524     1604     1363      1770     3539     1583             1770      3539
Flt Permitted                      0.29     1.00     1.00     0.56     1.00     1.00      0.43     1.00     1.00             0.55      1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   525    1792     1524       891    1604     1363        800    3539     1583             1023      3539
Peak-hour factor, PHF              0.86     0.86     0.86     0.91     0.91     0.91      0.91     0.91     0.91    0.86     0.86      0.86
Growth Factor (vph)             101%      101%     101%     101%     101%     101%      101%     101%     101%     101%    101%      101%
Adj. Flow (vph)                     537      342      112      394      364       78        69      196      143       9      108      328
RTOR Reduction (vph)                  0        0       61        0        0       52         0        0     118        0         0        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)              537      342        51     394      364        26        69     196        25       0     117       328
Heavy Vehicles (%)                  6%       6%       6%       6%       6%       6%        2%       2%       2%      2%       2%        2%
Turn Type                       pm+pt              Perm     pm+pt             Perm      pm+pt             Perm     pm+pt   pm+pt
Protected Phases                      3       8                  7       4                   1       6                 5         5       2
Permitted Phases                      8                 8        4                 4         6                 6       2         2
Actuated Green, G (s)            103.8     72.3     72.3     79.4     53.4     53.4      36.4     27.8     27.8              39.8     29.6
Effective Green, g (s)           103.8     72.3     72.3     79.4     53.4     53.4      36.4     27.8     27.8              39.8     29.6
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.65     0.45     0.45     0.50     0.33     0.33      0.23     0.17     0.17              0.25     0.19
Clearance Time (s)                  6.0      6.3      6.3      5.5      5.8      5.8       5.8      6.0      6.0               5.9      5.9
Vehicle Extension (s)               3.0     3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0                3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 671      810      689      545      535      455       234      615      275               302      655
v/s Ratio Prot                   c0.22     0.19               0.12    0.23                0.02    0.06                      c0.02     0.09
v/s Ratio Perm                   c0.29              0.03      0.24             0.02       0.05             0.02              0.07
v/c Ratio                          0.80    0.42     0.07      0.72    0.68     0.06       0.29    0.32     0.09              0.39     0.50
Uniform Delay, d1                  20.3    29.7     24.9      27.4    45.9     36.2       49.8    57.8     55.5              48.4     58.6
Progression Factor                 1.26    0.85     0.89      1.00    1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00              1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2               5.5     1.3      0.2       4.7     6.8      0.2        0.7     0.3      0.1                0.8     0.6
Delay (s)                          31.1    26.7     22.2      32.1    52.8     36.4       50.5    58.1     55.6              49.2     59.2
Level of Service                      C       C        C         C       D        D          D       E        E                 D        E
Approach Delay (s)                         28.6                       41.5                        56.0                                70.9
Approach LOS                                  C                          D                           E                                   E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            49.6        HCM Level of Service                         D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.74
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           160.0        Sum of lost time (s)                      11.9
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  79.8%         ICU Level of Service                        D
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2011                                                                                                              Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                   Page 6




                                                                                                                                              Page 341
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd                Opt 3 - C160;Splits,Offsets Optimized
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                           PM Peak - Existing



Movement                  SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)               624
Ideal Flow (vphpl)        1900
Total Lost time (s)         5.9
Lane Util. Factor          1.00
Frt                        0.85
Flt Protected              1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)         1583
Flt Permitted              1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)         1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF      0.86
Growth Factor (vph)      101%
Adj. Flow (vph)             733
RTOR Reduction (vph)       491
Lane Group Flow (vph)      242
Heavy Vehicles (%)          2%
Turn Type                Perm
Protected Phases
Permitted Phases              2
Actuated Green, G (s)     29.6
Effective Green, g (s)    29.6
Actuated g/C Ratio        0.19
Clearance Time (s)          5.9
Vehicle Extension (s)      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)         293
v/s Ratio Prot
v/s Ratio Perm           c0.15
v/c Ratio                 0.82
Uniform Delay, d1         62.7
Progression Factor        1.00
Incremental Delay, d2     16.9
Delay (s)                 79.6
Level of Service             E
Approach Delay (s)
Approach LOS
Intersection Summary




11/6/2011                                                              Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                   Page 7




                                                                                             Page 342
                                                             Opt 3 - C160;Splits,Offsets Optimized
Arterial Level of Service                                                            PM Peak - Existing

Arterial Level of Service: EB SR 714
                       Arterial    Flow   Running   Signal        Travel    Dist   Arterial     Arterial
Cross Street           Class      Speed     Time    Delay       Time (s)    (mi)   Speed           LOS
SW Citrus Blvd         I             50      50.8     20.8          71.6    0.70      35.4            B
SW 42 Ave              I             45      44.4      9.1          53.5    0.50      33.9            C
TPK NB Off Ramp        I             45      49.3     31.1          80.4    0.62      27.6            C
Total                  I                    144.5     61.0        205.5     1.83      32.0            C

Arterial Level of Service: WB SR 714
                       Arterial    Flow   Running   Signal        Travel    Dist   Arterial     Arterial
Cross Street           Class      Speed     Time    Delay       Time (s)    (mi)   Speed           LOS
SW Martin Downs Blvd   II            45      29.4     55.7          85.1    0.30      12.6            F
SW 42 Ave              II            45      49.3     31.9          81.2    0.62      27.3            C
SW Citrus Blvd         II            45      44.4      5.1          49.5    0.50      36.7            A
Total                  II                   123.1     92.7        215.8     1.42      23.6            C




11/6/2011                                                                           Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                Page 8




                                                                                                           Page 343
1: SR 714 & SW Citrus Blvd                                                        Opt 3- C160,Splits,Offsets Optimized
Queues                                                                                                            2021 - AM Peak



Lane Group                    EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL        WBT     WBR       NBL    NBT    NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)           75     615       95     155        465     155        72     58    318     523      119      180
v/c Ratio                     0.26     0.89    0.15    0.73       0.60    0.21      0.36   0.34    0.94    0.95     0.22    0.31
Control Delay                 22.7     58.0     5.0    33.2       27.5      6.7     42.1   72.9    57.6    69.2     40.3      6.2
Queue Delay                    0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0        0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
Total Delay                   22.7     58.0     5.0    33.2       27.5      6.7     42.1   72.9    57.6    69.2     40.3      6.2
Queue Length 50th (ft)          39     582        0      73        333      25        46     57    112     479        90        0
Queue Length 95th (ft)          63     653       27      88        316      28        77     99   #232    #574      136       46
Internal Link Dist (ft)               3642                        2582                      586                      413
Turn Bay Length (ft)           420              420      285               365       240           575     365               365
Base Capacity (vph)           284     710      656      212       795     762       198    193    357     553       549     588
Starvation Cap Reductn           0       0        0        0         0       0         0      0      0       0         0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0       0        0        0         0       0         0      0      0       0         0       0
Storage Cap Reductn              0       0        0        0         0       0         0      0      0       0         0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.26    0.87     0.14     0.73      0.58    0.20      0.36   0.30   0.89    0.95      0.22    0.31
Intersection Summary
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.




11/6/2011                                                                                                    Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                         Page 1




                                                                                                                                    Page 344
1: SR 714 & SW Citrus Blvd                                                              Opt 3- C160,Splits,Offsets Optimized
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                                 2021 - AM Peak



Movement                            EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR        NBL      NBT      NBR       SBL       SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        57       467       72      105       314      105        56       45      247      412         94     142
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1700      1700     1700     1900      1900     1900      1900     1900     1900     1700       1700     1700
Total Lost time (s)                6.0       6.2      6.2       6.0      6.2      6.2       6.0      6.4      6.4       6.0       6.4      6.4
Lane Util. Factor                 1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00     1.00
Frt                               1.00      1.00     0.85     1.00      1.00     0.85      1.00     1.00     0.85     1.00       1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95      1.00     1.00     0.95      1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95       1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1524      1604     1363     1703      1792     1524      1770     1863     1583     1583       1667     1417
Flt Permitted                     0.32      1.00     1.00     0.17      1.00     1.00      0.68     1.00     1.00     0.51       1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  512     1604     1363       312     1792     1524      1268     1863     1583       850      1667     1417
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.82      0.82     0.82     0.73      0.73     0.73      0.84     0.84     0.84     0.85       0.85     0.85
Growth Factor (vph)             108%      108%     108%     108%      108%     108%      108%     108%     108%     108%       108%     108%
Adj. Flow (vph)                     75       615       95      155       465      155        72       58      318      523        119     180
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0         0       54         0        0       87         0        0     195          0         0     121
Lane Group Flow (vph)               75      615        41      155      465        68        72       58     123       523       119        59
Heavy Vehicles (%)                 6%        6%       6%       6%        6%       6%        2%       2%       2%       2%         2%       2%
Turn Type                       pm+pt              Perm     pm+pt              Perm      pm+pt             Perm     pm+pt               Perm
Protected Phases                     1        6                   5       2                   7       4                   3        8
Permitted Phases                     6                  6         2                 2         4                 4         8                 8
Actuated Green, G (s)            75.6      69.1     69.1      76.8     69.7     69.7      21.7     14.6     14.6      65.2      52.1     52.1
Effective Green, g (s)           75.6      69.1     69.1      76.8     69.7     69.7      21.7     14.6     14.6      65.2      52.1     52.1
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.47      0.43     0.43      0.48     0.44     0.44      0.14     0.09     0.09      0.41      0.33     0.33
Clearance Time (s)                 6.0       6.2      6.2       6.0      6.2      6.2       6.0      6.4      6.4       6.0       6.4     6.4
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      5.0      5.0       3.0      5.0      5.0        4.0     4.0      4.0       4.0       4.0      4.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                283       693      589       211      781      664       194      170      144       551       543     461
v/s Ratio Prot                    0.01    c0.38              c0.03     0.26                0.02    0.03              c0.26      0.07
v/s Ratio Perm                    0.11              0.03      0.32              0.04       0.03             0.08     c0.12               0.04
v/c Ratio                         0.27     0.89     0.07      0.73     0.60     0.10       0.37    0.34     0.85      0.95      0.22     0.13
Uniform Delay, d1                 25.5     41.9     26.6      34.6     34.4     26.7       62.3    68.2     71.6      42.4      39.2     38.0
Progression Factor                1.00     1.00     1.00      0.62     0.71     1.73       1.00    1.00     1.00      1.00      1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              0.5     15.6      0.2       9.8      2.6      0.2        1.6     1.6     36.6      26.1       0.3      0.2
Delay (s)                         26.0     57.5     26.9      31.4     27.1     46.2       63.9    69.8    108.2      68.5      39.5     38.1
Level of Service                     C        E        C         C        C        D          E       E        F          E        D        D
Approach Delay (s)                         50.8                        31.8                        96.1                         57.7
Approach LOS                                  D                           C                           F                            E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            54.8         HCM Level of Service                         D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.90
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           160.0         Sum of lost time (s)                      18.2
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  89.2%          ICU Level of Service                         E
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2011                                                                                                                Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                     Page 2




                                                                                                                                                 Page 345
2: SR 714 & SW 42 Ave                                                          Opt 3- C160,Splits,Offsets Optimized
Queues                                                                                                  2021 - AM Peak



Lane Group                    EBL      EBT     WBL      WBT     WBR     NBT      SBT    SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)           83    1293        6      938     275      43       76     22
v/c Ratio                     0.24     0.97    0.03     0.69    0.22    0.39     0.53   0.15
Control Delay                  1.5     20.3     2.6     10.2      0.7   62.0     82.8   27.5
Queue Delay                    0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0
Total Delay                    1.5     20.3     2.6     10.2      0.7   62.0     82.8   27.5
Queue Length 50th (ft)           3     707        1      356        6     30       77      0
Queue Length 95th (ft)         m6    #1506      m1       315      m9      36    #154      25
Internal Link Dist (ft)               2582               858             402      409
Turn Bay Length (ft)          450               150               540                    470
Base Capacity (vph)           344     1339      223     1445    1282    111      143    142
Starvation Cap Reductn           0        0        0        0       0      0        0      0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0        0        0        0       0      0        0      0
Storage Cap Reductn              0        0        0        0       0      0        0      0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.24     0.97     0.03     0.65    0.21   0.39     0.53   0.15
Intersection Summary
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




11/6/2011                                                                                             Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                  Page 3




                                                                                                                           Page 346
2: SR 714 & SW 42 Ave                                                                       Opt 3- C160,Splits,Offsets Optimized
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                                 2021 - AM Peak



Movement                            EBL     EBT      EBR      WBL       WBT       WBR         NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         66     1030        0           5      747       219       13         0      7      55          0       16
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                1700      1700     1700      1900      1900      1900      1900     1900    1900    1900      1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                 5.5       5.8                 5.5       5.8       5.8               6.0                       6.0      6.0
Lane Util. Factor                  1.00      1.00               1.00      1.00      1.00               1.00                      1.00     1.00
Frt                                1.00      1.00               1.00      1.00      0.85               0.95                      1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                      0.95      1.00               0.95      1.00      1.00               0.97                      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                 1524      1604               1703      1792      1524               1719                      1863     1583
Flt Permitted                     0.21       1.00              0.12      1.00      1.00                0.73                      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   339     1604                 210     1792      1524               1289                      1863     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF              0.86      0.86    0.86       0.86      0.86      0.86      0.50     0.50    0.50    0.78      0.78     0.78
Growth Factor (vph)             108%       108%     108%     108%       108%      108%       108%    108%     108%    108%     108%     108%
Adj. Flow (vph)                      83     1293        0           6      938       275        28        0      15      76         0       22
RTOR Reduction (vph)                   0        0       0           0         0       65         0       12       0       0         0       20
Lane Group Flow (vph)                83     1293        0           6     938       210          0       31       0       0        76        2
Heavy Vehicles (%)                  6%        6%      6%         6%        6%        6%        2%       2%      2%      2%        2%       2%
Turn Type                       pm+pt                        pm+pt                Perm       Perm                     Perm              Perm
Protected Phases                       1       6                    5        2                           4                         8
Permitted Phases                       6                            2                  2        4                        8                   8
Actuated Green, G (s)            129.2     129.2              122.4     122.1     122.1               12.3                      12.3     12.3
Effective Green, g (s)           129.2     129.2              122.4     122.1     122.1               12.3                      12.3     12.3
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.81       0.81               0.77     0.76      0.76               0.08                      0.08     0.08
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5      5.8                 5.5      5.8       5.8               6.0                        6.0      6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)               5.0       5.0                5.0      5.0       5.0                4.0                       4.0      4.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 335      1295                 172     1368      1163                 99                       143      122
v/s Ratio Prot                     0.01    c0.81                0.00    c0.52
v/s Ratio Perm                     0.19                         0.03               0.14               0.02                      0.04     0.00
v/c Ratio                          0.25     1.00                0.03     0.69      0.18               0.31                      0.53     0.01
Uniform Delay, d1                    9.4    15.3                29.6      9.4       5.2               69.9                      71.1     68.2
Progression Factor                 0.33     0.79                0.76     0.81      0.80               1.00                      1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2               0.3     15.7                  0.1     2.3       0.3                2.5                       4.8      0.1
Delay (s)                           3.4     27.8                22.6      9.9       4.4               72.3                      75.9     68.3
Level of Service                       A       C                   C        A         A                  E                         E        E
Approach Delay (s)                          26.3                          8.7                         72.3                      74.2
Approach LOS                                   C                            A                            E                         E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             20.9          HCM Level of Service                         C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          0.93
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            160.0          Sum of lost time (s)                       11.8
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   83.9%           ICU Level of Service                          E
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2011                                                                                                                 Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                      Page 4




                                                                                                                                                 Page 347
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd                                                  Opt 3- C160,Splits,Offsets Optimized
Queues                                                                                                           2021 - AM Peak



Lane Group                    EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT        WBR      NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)         809      484       53      194     442         50     155    397     397    144      273      716
v/c Ratio                     0.74     0.30    0.07     0.65    0.51       0.12     0.58   0.75   0.69    0.67     0.51    0.80
Control Delay                 41.5     18.0     3.3     80.7    54.7       12.8     56.2   74.2   11.7    61.9     64.9    21.0
Queue Delay                    0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0
Total Delay                   41.5     18.0     3.3     80.7    54.7       12.8     56.2   74.2   11.7    61.9     64.9    21.0
Queue Length 50th (ft)        362      127        1      102     212          0     130    212        0   121      140      316
Queue Length 95th (ft)       m392     m158      m4       145     285         39     172    237      55    170      174      353
Internal Link Dist (ft)                427                       454                        502                     595
Turn Bay Length (ft)                             315     240                410      300                   400              500
Base Capacity (vph)           1090    1622      750     334         864    424      268    708    634     220      723     896
Starvation Cap Reductn            0       0        0       0           0      0        0      0      0       0        0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0       0        0       0           0      0        0      0      0       0        0       0
Storage Cap Reductn               0       0        0       0           0      0        0      0      0       0        0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.74    0.30     0.07    0.58        0.51   0.12     0.58   0.56   0.63    0.65     0.38    0.80
Intersection Summary
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




11/6/2011                                                                                                    Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                         Page 5




                                                                                                                                   Page 348
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd                                                         Opt 3- C160,Splits,Offsets Optimized
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                                  2021 - AM Peak



Movement                            EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR        NBL      NBT      NBR       SBL       SBT       SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                      745         446        49     175      398        45      127      326      326       124       235       617
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1700        1700     1700     1900     1900     1900      1900     1900     1900     1900       1900      1900
Total Lost time (s)                6.0         6.3      6.3      5.5      5.8      5.8       5.8      6.0      6.0       5.9       5.9       6.0
Lane Util. Factor                 0.97        0.95     1.00     0.97     0.95     1.00      1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00       0.95      1.00
Frt                               1.00        1.00     0.85     1.00     1.00     0.85      1.00     1.00     0.85     1.00       1.00      0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95        1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95       1.00      1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                2956        3047     1363     3303     3406     1524      1770     3539     1583     1770       3539      1583
Flt Permitted                     0.95        1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00      0.45     1.00     1.00     0.26       1.00      1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                2956        3047     1363     3303     3406     1524        839    3539     1583       479      3539      1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.93        0.93     0.93     0.91     0.91     0.91      0.83     0.83     0.83     0.87       0.87      0.87
Growth Factor (vph)             101%        101%     101%     101%     101%     101%      101%     101%     101%     101%       101%      101%
Adj. Flow (vph)                    809         484       53      194      442       50       155      397      397      144        273      716
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0           0       25        0        0       37         0        0     338          0         0        72
Lane Group Flow (vph)             809         484        28     194      442        13      155      397        59      144       273       644
Heavy Vehicles (%)                 6%          6%       6%       6%       6%       6%        2%       2%       2%       2%         2%        2%
Turn Type                         Prot               Perm       Prot            Perm      pm+pt             Perm     pm+pt               pm+ov
Protected Phases                     3          8                  7       4                   1       6                   5        2          3
Permitted Phases                                          8                          4         6                 6         2                   2
Actuated Green, G (s)               59.0    85.2      85.2     14.4     40.6     40.6      36.4     23.9     23.9      37.2      24.4      83.4
Effective Green, g (s)              59.0    85.2      85.2     14.4     40.6     40.6      36.4     23.9     23.9      37.2      24.4      83.4
Actuated g/C Ratio                   0.37    0.53     0.53     0.09     0.25     0.25      0.23     0.15     0.15      0.23      0.15       0.52
Clearance Time (s)                    6.0     6.3       6.3      5.5      5.8      5.8       5.8      6.0      6.0       5.9       5.9       6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                 3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0       3.0       3.0        3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                  1090    1623       726      297      864      387       264      529      236       215       540       825
v/s Ratio Prot                       0.27    0.16             c0.06    c0.13                0.05    0.11              c0.05      0.08     c0.29
v/s Ratio Perm                                        0.02                       0.01       0.09             0.04      0.10                 0.12
v/c Ratio                           0.74     0.30     0.04     0.65     0.51     0.03       0.59    0.75     0.25      0.67      0.51       0.78
Uniform Delay, d1                   43.9     20.8     17.9     70.4     51.2     44.9       52.4    65.2     60.1      51.9      62.3       30.9
Progression Factor                  0.87     0.80     0.62     1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00      1.00      1.00       1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                1.6      0.3      0.1      5.1      2.2      0.2        3.3     5.9      0.6       7.7       0.7        4.8
Delay (s)                           40.0     16.9     11.1     75.5     53.4     45.1       55.7    71.1     60.7      59.5      63.0       35.7
Level of Service                       D        B        B        E        D        D          E       E        E          E        E          D
Approach Delay (s)                           30.5                       59.0                        64.3                         45.3
Approach LOS                                    C                          E                           E                            D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              47.1        HCM Level of Service                         D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                           0.67
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             160.0        Sum of lost time (s)                      17.4
Intersection Capacity Utilization                    71.5%         ICU Level of Service                        C
Analysis Period (min)                                    15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2011                                                                                                                 Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                      Page 6




                                                                                                                                                   Page 349
                                                             Opt 3- C160,Splits,Offsets Optimized
Arterial Level of Service                                                              2021 - AM Peak

Arterial Level of Service: EB SR 714
                       Arterial    Flow   Running   Signal       Travel    Dist    Arterial    Arterial
Cross Street           Class      Speed     Time    Delay      Time (s)    (mi)    Speed          LOS
SW Citrus Blvd         I             50      50.8     58.0       108.8     0.70       23.3           D
SW 42 Ave              I             45      44.4     20.3         64.7    0.50       28.1           C
TPK NB Off Ramp        I             45      49.3     18.0         67.3    0.62       33.0           C
Total                  I                    144.5     96.3       240.8     1.83       27.3           C

Arterial Level of Service: WB SR 714
                       Arterial    Flow   Running   Signal       Travel    Dist    Arterial    Arterial
Cross Street           Class      Speed     Time    Delay      Time (s)    (mi)    Speed          LOS
SW Martin Downs Blvd   II            45      29.4     54.7         84.1    0.30       12.7           F
SW 42 Ave              II            45      49.3     10.2         59.5    0.62       37.3           A
SW Citrus Blvd         II            45      44.4     27.5         71.9    0.50       25.2           C
Total                  II                   123.1     92.4       215.5     1.42       23.7           C




11/6/2011                                                                           Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                Page 7




                                                                                                          Page 350
1: SR 714 & SW Citrus Blvd                                                      Opt 3 - C160,Splits,Offsets Optimized
Queues                                                                                                          2021 - PM PEAK



Lane Group                    EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)           20     546       67      256     590     404         79     82    247    112        30      30
v/c Ratio                     0.06     0.55    0.08     0.47     0.54   0.38       0.26   0.57   0.70    0.67     0.29    0.26
Control Delay                 19.7     27.5     4.6     10.6      9.2     0.9      56.6   85.4   18.7    83.1     79.7    27.3
Queue Delay                    0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
Total Delay                   19.7     27.5     4.6     10.6      9.2     0.9      56.6   85.4   18.7    83.1     79.7    27.3
Queue Length 50th (ft)           9     359        0       72     170      28         71     84       0   103        31       0
Queue Length 95th (ft)          26     509       24     m37     m127     m5        110    135      72    134        58      27
Internal Link Dist (ft)               3642                      2582                       586                     496
Turn Bay Length (ft)           420               420     285              365       240           575     365              365
Base Capacity (vph)           347      989      871     556     1101    1062       306    368    511     167      395     359
Starvation Cap Reductn           0        0        0       0        0       0         0      0      0       0        0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0        0        0       0        0       0         0      0      0       0        0       0
Storage Cap Reductn              0        0        0       0        0       0         0      0      0       0        0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.06     0.55     0.08    0.46     0.54    0.38      0.26   0.22   0.48    0.67     0.08    0.08
Intersection Summary
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




11/6/2011                                                                                                   Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                        Page 1




                                                                                                                                 Page 351
1: SR 714 & SW Citrus Blvd                                                              Opt 3 - C160,Splits,Offsets Optimized
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                                 2021 - PM PEAK



Movement                            EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR         NBL     NBT      NBR       SBL       SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        16       430       53       225      519      355        63       65      197        81        22       22
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900      1900     1900      1700     1700     1700      1900     1900     1900     1900       1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                6.0       6.2      6.2       6.0      6.2      6.2       6.0      6.4      6.4       6.0       4.1      4.1
Lane Util. Factor                 1.00      1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00     1.00
Frt                               1.00      1.00     0.85      1.00     1.00     0.85      1.00     1.00     0.85     1.00       1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95      1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95       1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1703      1792     1524      1524     1604     1363      1770     1863     1583     1770       1863     1583
Flt Permitted                     0.30      1.00     1.00      0.37     1.00     1.00      0.74     1.00     1.00     0.64       1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  539     1792     1524        591    1604     1363      1374     1863     1583     1194       1863     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.85      0.85     0.85      0.95     0.95     0.95      0.86     0.86     0.86     0.78       0.78     0.78
Growth Factor (vph)             108%      108%     108%     108%      108%     108%      108%     108%     108%     108%       108%     108%
Adj. Flow (vph)                     20       546       67       256      590      404        79       82      247      112         30       30
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0         0       31         0        0     135          0        0     228          0         0       29
Lane Group Flow (vph)               20      546        36      256      590      269         79       82       19      112         30        1
Heavy Vehicles (%)                 6%        6%       6%        6%       6%       6%        2%       2%       2%       2%         2%       2%
Turn Type                       pm+pt              Perm     pm+pt              Perm      pm+pt             Perm     pm+pt               Perm
Protected Phases                     1        6                   5       2                   7       4                   3        8
Permitted Phases                     6                  6         2                2          4                 4         8                 8
Actuated Green, G (s)            85.1      85.1     85.1     106.8    106.6    106.6      31.0     12.5     12.5      19.3       7.2      7.2
Effective Green, g (s)           85.1      85.1     85.1     106.8    106.6    106.6      31.0     12.5     12.5      19.3       7.2      7.2
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.53      0.53     0.53      0.67      0.67    0.67      0.19     0.08     0.08      0.12      0.05     0.05
Clearance Time (s)                 6.0       6.2      6.2       6.0      6.2     6.2        6.0      6.4      6.4       6.0      4.1      4.1
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0      3.0     3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0       3.0       3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                317       953      811       544     1069     908        315      146      124       188        84       71
v/s Ratio Prot                    0.00    c0.30                0.08   c0.37                0.03   c0.04              c0.05      0.02
v/s Ratio Perm                   0.03               0.02      0.24              0.20      0.02              0.01      0.03               0.00
v/c Ratio                         0.06     0.57     0.04       0.47    0.55     0.30       0.25    0.56     0.16      0.60      0.36     0.02
Uniform Delay, d1                 19.9     25.2     18.0       23.1    14.1     11.1       55.2    71.1     68.8      66.4      74.2     73.0
Progression Factor                1.00     1.00     1.00       0.56    0.61     0.68       1.00    1.00     1.00      1.00      1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              0.1      2.5      0.1        0.1     0.2      0.1        0.4     4.9      0.6       5.0       2.6      0.1
Delay (s)                         20.0     27.7     18.1       13.0     8.8      7.6       55.6    76.0     69.4      71.4      76.7     73.1
Level of Service                     B        C        B          B       A        A          E       E        E          E        E        E
Approach Delay (s)                         26.4                         9.2                        68.1                         72.6
Approach LOS                                  C                           A                           E                            E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            27.8         HCM Level of Service                         C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.55
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           160.0         Sum of lost time (s)                      18.6
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  65.4%          ICU Level of Service                        C
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2011                                                                                                                Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                     Page 2




                                                                                                                                                 Page 352
2: SR 714 & SW 42 Ave                                                             Opt 3 - C160,Splits,Offsets Optimized
Queues                                                                                                     2021 - PM PEAK



Lane Group                    EBL      EBT     WBL       WBT    WBR        NBT       SBT    SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)           28     909        8     1261      81         26      389     133
v/c Ratio                     0.28     0.72    0.04      1.16   0.09       0.16      1.01   0.31
Control Delay                 18.6     12.1     7.5     102.0    1.7       38.2     108.0   10.1
Queue Delay                    0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0    0.0        0.0       0.0     0.0
Total Delay                   18.6     12.1     7.5     102.0    1.7       38.2     108.0   10.1
Queue Length 50th (ft)           3     136        3    ~1575       3         12     ~477        0
Queue Length 95th (ft)        m15      495      m4     #1847     m8          22     #434      17
Internal Link Dist (ft)               2582                870               402       409
Turn Bay Length (ft)          450               150                  540                     470
Base Capacity (vph)           101     1262      223     1090        952    165       387    434
Starvation Cap Reductn           0        0        0        0          0      0         0      0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0        0        0        0          0      0         0      0
Storage Cap Reductn              0        0        0        0          0      0         0      0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.28     0.72     0.04     1.16       0.09   0.16      1.01   0.31
Intersection Summary
~ Volume exceeds capacity, queue is theoretically infinite.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




11/6/2011                                                                                                Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                     Page 3




                                                                                                                              Page 353
2: SR 714 & SW 42 Ave                                                                     Opt 3 - C160,Splits,Offsets Optimized
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                                 2021 - PM PEAK



Movement                            EBL    EBT       EBR      WBL       WBT      WBR         NBL     NBT      NBR      SBL      SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         24      766        0           7    1109        71        7          0      6     245          0       84
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                1900     1900      1900      1700      1700     1700      1900     1900     1900    1900      1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                 5.5      5.8                  5.5      5.8      5.8                 6.0                       6.0       6.0
Lane Util. Factor                  1.00     1.00                1.00      1.00     1.00               1.00                       1.00     1.00
Frt                                1.00     1.00                1.00      1.00     0.85               0.94                       1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                      0.95     1.00                0.95      1.00     1.00               0.97                       1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                 1703     1792                1524      1604     1363               1701                       1863     1583
Flt Permitted                     0.04     1.00                0.16       1.00    1.00                0.43                       1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                    69    1792                  259     1604     1363                 749                      1863     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF              0.91     0.91     0.91       0.95      0.95     0.95      0.54     0.54     0.54    0.68      0.68     0.68
Growth Factor (vph)             108%      108%      108%     108%       108%     108%       108%    108%      108%    108%     108%     108%
Adj. Flow (vph)                      28      909        0           8    1261        81        14         0      12     389         0      133
RTOR Reduction (vph)                  0        0        0           0        0       28         0       10        0       0         0      105
Lane Group Flow (vph)                28     909         0           8    1261        53         0       16        0       0      389        28
Heavy Vehicles (%)                  6%       6%       6%         6%        6%       6%        2%       2%       2%      2%        2%       2%
Turn Type                       pm+pt                        pm+pt               Perm       Perm                      Perm              Perm
Protected Phases                      1       6                     5       2                            4                         8
Permitted Phases                      6                             2                 2        4                         8                   8
Actuated Green, G (s)            108.6    108.3               104.3     104.3    104.3               33.2                       33.2     33.2
Effective Green, g (s)           108.6    108.3               104.3     104.3    104.3               33.2                       33.2     33.2
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.68      0.68                0.65     0.65     0.65               0.21                       0.21     0.21
Clearance Time (s)                  5.5      5.8                  5.5      5.8      5.8                6.0                        6.0      6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)               3.0      3.0                 3.0      3.0      3.0                3.0                        3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 100     1213                  178     1046      889                155                        387      328
v/s Ratio Prot                     0.01   c0.51                 0.00    c0.79
v/s Ratio Perm                     0.18                         0.03              0.04               0.02                       0.21     0.02
v/c Ratio                          0.28    0.75                 0.04     1.21     0.06               0.11                       1.01     0.08
Uniform Delay, d1                  71.0    17.0                 18.5     27.9     10.1               51.4                       63.4     51.1
Progression Factor                 0.61    0.60                 0.88     0.83     0.95               1.00                       1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2               1.3     3.7                   0.1    99.7      0.1                0.3                       47.0      0.1
Delay (s)                          44.5    13.9                 16.4    122.9      9.6               51.7                      110.4     51.2
Level of Service                      D       B                     B       F        A                  D                          F        D
Approach Delay (s)                         14.8                         115.5                        51.7                       95.4
Approach LOS                                  B                             F                           D                          F
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             77.9          HCM Level of Service                         E
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          1.11
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            160.0          Sum of lost time (s)                       11.8
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  101.6%           ICU Level of Service                         G
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2011                                                                                                                 Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                      Page 4




                                                                                                                                                  Page 354
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd                                                  Opt 3 - C160,Splits,Offsets Optimized
Queues                                                                                                            2021 - PM PEAK



Lane Group                    EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT        WBR       NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)         641      409      134      471     435         93        82   235     171    141      391      876
v/c Ratio                     0.42     0.25    0.17     0.84    0.69       0.26      0.57   0.62   0.53    0.64     0.84    0.89
Control Delay                 29.4     25.6      6.1    76.6    65.2       11.2      67.7   75.8   14.9    67.3     84.4    27.8
Queue Delay                    0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0       0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0
Total Delay                   29.4     25.6      6.1    76.6    65.2       11.2      67.7   75.8   14.9    67.3     84.4    27.8
Queue Length 50th (ft)        212      134       13      247     225          0        70   125        0   126      212      442
Queue Length 95th (ft)       m263     m169     m33       303     291         51      122    174      75    186      260      598
Internal Link Dist (ft)                427                       457                         502                     584
Turn Bay Length (ft)                             315     240                410       300                   400              500
Base Capacity (vph)           1528    1641      804     658         635    358       145    398    330     223      489     984
Starvation Cap Reductn            0       0        0       0           0      0         0      0      0       0        0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0       0        0       0           0      0         0      0      0       0        0       0
Storage Cap Reductn               0       0        0       0           0      0         0      0      0       0        0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.42    0.25     0.17    0.72        0.69   0.26      0.57   0.59   0.52    0.63     0.80    0.89
Intersection Summary
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




11/6/2011                                                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                          Page 5




                                                                                                                                    Page 355
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd                                                         Opt 3 - C160,Splits,Offsets Optimized
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                                2021 - PM PEAK



Movement                            EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR         NBL     NBT      NBR      SBU       SBL      SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                      546         348      114      424      392        84        74     212      154       10      110       333
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900        1900     1900     1700     1700     1700      1900     1900     1900     1900     1900      1900
Total Lost time (s)                6.0         6.3      6.3      5.5      5.8      5.8       5.8      6.0      6.0                5.9      5.9
Lane Util. Factor                 0.97        0.95     1.00     0.97     0.95     1.00      1.00     0.95     1.00              1.00      0.95
Frt                               1.00        1.00     0.85     1.00     1.00     0.85      1.00     1.00     0.85              1.00      1.00
Flt Protected                    0.95        1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00     1.00               0.95      1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                3303        3406     1524     2956     3047     1363      1770     3539     1583              1770      3539
Flt Permitted                     0.95        1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00      0.27     1.00     1.00              0.37      1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                3303        3406     1524     2956     3047     1363        500    3539     1583                685     3539
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.86        0.86     0.86     0.91     0.91     0.91      0.91     0.91     0.91    0.86      0.86      0.86
Growth Factor (vph)             101%        101%     101%     101%     101%     101%      101%     101%     101%     101%     101%      101%
Adj. Flow (vph)                    641         409      134      471      435       93        82      235      171      12       129      391
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0           0       69        0        0       74         0        0     153        0          0        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)             641         409        65     471      435        19        82     235        18       0      141       391
Heavy Vehicles (%)                 6%          6%       6%       6%       6%       6%        2%       2%       2%      2%        2%        2%
Turn Type                         Prot               Perm       Prot            Perm      pm+pt             Perm     pm+pt    pm+pt
Protected Phases                     3          8                  7       4                   1       6                 5          5       2
Permitted Phases                                          8                          4         6                 6       2          2
Actuated Green, G (s)               74.0     77.1     77.1     30.2     33.3     33.3      25.4     17.2     17.2               32.8     21.0
Effective Green, g (s)              74.0     77.1     77.1     30.2     33.3     33.3      25.4     17.2     17.2               32.8     21.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                   0.46    0.48     0.48     0.19     0.21     0.21      0.16     0.11     0.11               0.20     0.13
Clearance Time (s)                    6.0     6.3       6.3      5.5      5.8      5.8       5.8      6.0      6.0                5.9      5.9
Vehicle Extension (s)                 3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0                 3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                  1528    1641       734      558      634      284       144      380      170                220      464
v/s Ratio Prot                       0.19   c0.12             c0.16     0.14                0.03    0.07                       c0.05     0.11
v/s Ratio Perm                                        0.04                       0.01       0.06             0.01               0.08
v/c Ratio                           0.42     0.25     0.09     0.84     0.69     0.07       0.57    0.62     0.11               0.64     0.84
Uniform Delay, d1                   28.7     24.4     22.4     62.6     58.5     50.9       59.6    68.3     64.5               55.2     67.9
Progression Factor                  1.00     1.00     1.52     1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00               1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.1      0.3      0.2     11.2      6.0      0.5        5.1     3.0      0.3                 6.2    13.1
Delay (s)                           28.7     24.6     34.1     73.8     64.5     51.4       64.7    71.3     64.8               61.4     80.9
Level of Service                       C        C        C        E        E        D          E       E        E                   E       F
Approach Delay (s)                           27.9                       67.7                        67.9                                 52.1
Approach LOS                                    C                          E                           E                                    D
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              50.8        HCM Level of Service                         D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                           0.90
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             160.0        Sum of lost time (s)                      29.7
Intersection Capacity Utilization                    80.2%         ICU Level of Service                        D
Analysis Period (min)                                    15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2011                                                                                                                Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                     Page 6




                                                                                                                                                 Page 356
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd                Opt 3 - C160,Splits,Offsets Optimized
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                            2021 - PM PEAK



Movement                   SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                746
Ideal Flow (vphpl)         1900
Total Lost time (s)          6.0
Lane Util. Factor           1.00
Frt                         0.85
Flt Protected               1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)          1583
Flt Permitted               1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)          1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF       0.86
Growth Factor (vph)       101%
Adj. Flow (vph)              876
RTOR Reduction (vph)          45
Lane Group Flow (vph)       831
Heavy Vehicles (%)           2%
Turn Type                pm+ov
Protected Phases               3
Permitted Phases               2
Actuated Green, G (s)      95.0
Effective Green, g (s)     95.0
Actuated g/C Ratio         0.59
Clearance Time (s)           6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)        3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)          940
v/s Ratio Prot            c0.41
v/s Ratio Perm              0.12
v/c Ratio                   0.88
Uniform Delay, d1           27.8
Progression Factor          1.00
Incremental Delay, d2        9.9
Delay (s)                   37.7
Level of Service               D
Approach Delay (s)
Approach LOS
Intersection Summary




11/6/2011                                                              Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                   Page 7




                                                                                            Page 357
                                                             Opt 3 - C160,Splits,Offsets Optimized
Arterial Level of Service                                                              2021 - PM PEAK

Arterial Level of Service: EB SR 714
                       Arterial    Flow   Running   Signal        Travel    Dist   Arterial    Arterial
Cross Street           Class      Speed     Time    Delay       Time (s)    (mi)   Speed          LOS
SW Citrus Blvd         I             50      50.8     27.5          78.3    0.70      32.4           C
SW 42 Ave              I             45      44.4     12.1          56.5    0.50      32.1           C
TPK NB Off Ramp        I             45      49.3     25.6          74.9    0.62      29.6           C
Total                  I                    144.5     65.2        209.7     1.83      31.3           C

Arterial Level of Service: WB SR 714
                       Arterial    Flow   Running   Signal        Travel    Dist   Arterial    Arterial
Cross Street           Class      Speed     Time    Delay       Time (s)    (mi)   Speed          LOS
SW Martin Downs Blvd   II            45      26.9     65.2          92.1    0.26      10.1           F
SW 42 Ave              II            45      49.3   102.0         151.3     0.62      14.7           E
SW Citrus Blvd         II            45      44.4      9.2          53.6    0.50      33.9           B
Total                  II                   120.6   176.4         297.0     1.38      16.7           E




11/6/2011                                                                           Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                Page 8




                                                                                                          Page 358
1: SR 714 & SW Citrus Blvd                                                         Opt 3 - C160,Splits,Offsets Optimized
Queues                                                                                                               2031 - AM Peak



Lane Group                    EBL      EBT     EBR    WBL       WBT        WBR        NBL    NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT    SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)           91     736      113    186       556        186         86     69     381     626      144     216
v/c Ratio                     0.38     1.02    0.17   1.26       0.68      0.23       0.41   0.36    1.22     1.20     0.28   0.37
Control Delay                 24.3     82.2      4.8 168.3       28.4        5.1      43.8   72.5   156.1    147.1     43.5     6.5
Queue Delay                    0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Total Delay                   24.3     82.2      4.8 168.3       28.4        5.1      43.8   72.5   156.1    147.1     43.5     6.5
Queue Length 50th (ft)          46    ~815         1 ~164        376         26         57     68   ~325     ~653      114        0
Queue Length 95th (ft)          71    #904       29 m#220       m369       m30          91   115    #472     #809      167      49
Internal Link Dist (ft)               3642                      2582                          586                       413
Turn Bay Length (ft)           420               420     285                365        240            575      365              365
Base Capacity (vph)           240      720      673     148         815    795        209    193     312      521      517     588
Starvation Cap Reductn           0        0        0       0           0      0          0      0       0        0        0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0        0        0       0           0      0          0      0       0        0        0       0
Storage Cap Reductn              0        0        0       0           0      0          0      0       0        0        0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.38     1.02     0.17    1.26        0.68   0.23       0.41   0.36    1.22     1.20     0.28    0.37
Intersection Summary
~ Volume exceeds capacity, queue is theoretically infinite.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




11/6/2011                                                                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                             Page 1




                                                                                                                                      Page 359
1: SR 714 & SW Citrus Blvd                                                               Opt 3 - C160,Splits,Offsets Optimized
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                                  2031 - AM Peak



Movement                            EBL    EBT       EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR         NBL     NBT      NBR       SBL       SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        69       559        86       126      376      126        67       54      296       493       113     170
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1700      1700      1700      1900     1900     1900      1900     1900     1900      1700      1700     1700
Total Lost time (s)                6.0       6.2       6.2       6.0      6.2      6.2       6.0      6.4      6.4       6.0       6.4      6.4
Lane Util. Factor                 1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00      1.00     1.00
Frt                               1.00      1.00      0.85      1.00     1.00     0.85      1.00     1.00     0.85      1.00      1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95      1.00      1.00      0.95     1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00     1.00      0.95      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1524      1604      1363      1703     1792     1524      1770     1863     1583      1583      1667     1417
Flt Permitted                     0.25      1.00      1.00      0.09     1.00     1.00      0.67     1.00     1.00      0.52      1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  408     1604      1363        161    1792     1524      1239     1863     1583        872     1667     1417
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.82      0.82      0.82      0.73     0.73     0.73      0.84     0.84     0.84      0.85      0.85     0.85
Growth Factor (vph)             108%      108%      108%     108%      108%     108%      108%     108%     108%     108%       108%     108%
Adj. Flow (vph)                     91       736       113       186      556      186        86       69      381       626       144     216
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0         0        62         0        0     101          0        0     148          0         0     149
Lane Group Flow (vph)               91      736         51      186      556        85        86       69     233       626       144        67
Heavy Vehicles (%)                 6%        6%        6%        6%       6%       6%        2%       2%       2%        2%        2%       2%
Turn Type                       pm+pt               Perm     pm+pt              Perm      pm+pt             Perm     pm+pt               Perm
Protected Phases                     1        6                    5       2                   7       4                   3        8
Permitted Phases                     6                   6         2                 2         4                 4         8                 8
Actuated Green, G (s)            77.8      71.8      71.8      79.8     72.8     72.8      23.6     16.6     16.6      62.6      49.6     49.6
Effective Green, g (s)           77.8      71.8      71.8      79.8     72.8     72.8      23.6     16.6     16.6      62.6      49.6     49.6
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.49      0.45      0.45      0.50     0.45     0.45      0.15     0.10     0.10      0.39      0.31     0.31
Clearance Time (s)                 6.0       6.2       6.2       6.0      6.2      6.2       6.0      6.4      6.4       6.0       6.4     6.4
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      5.0       5.0        3.0     5.0      5.0        4.0     4.0      4.0        4.0      4.0      4.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                240       720       612       148      815      693       206      193      164       519       517     439
v/s Ratio Prot                    0.01     0.46               c0.06     0.31                0.02    0.04              c0.30      0.09
v/s Ratio Perm                    0.17               0.04     c0.57              0.06       0.04            c0.15       0.17              0.05
v/c Ratio                         0.38     1.02      0.08       1.26    0.68     0.12       0.42    0.36     1.42       1.21     0.28     0.15
Uniform Delay, d1                 26.1     44.1      25.3       37.4    34.5     25.2       61.1    66.7     71.7       45.5     41.7     40.0
Progression Factor                1.00     1.00      1.00       0.96    0.73     1.50       1.00    1.00     1.00       1.00     1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              1.0     39.3       0.3     144.6      2.8      0.2        1.9     1.5    221.4     109.9       0.4      0.2
Delay (s)                         27.1     83.4      25.5     180.4     28.0     38.0       63.0    68.3    293.1     155.4      42.1     40.2
Level of Service                     C        F         C          F       C        D          E       E        F          F        D        D
Approach Delay (s)                         71.0                         60.5                       227.2                        113.6
Approach LOS                                  E                            E                           F                            F
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            105.2         HCM Level of Service                         F
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          1.23
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            160.0         Sum of lost time (s)                      18.4
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  103.8%          ICU Level of Service                        G
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2011                                                                                                                 Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                      Page 2




                                                                                                                                                  Page 360
2: SR 714 & SW 42 Ave                                                           Opt 3 - C160,Splits,Offsets Optimized
Queues                                                                                                    2031 - AM Peak



Lane Group                    EBL    EBT       WBL      WBT     WBR      NBT       SBT    SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)           99  1547          8     1121     328       54        91     26
v/c Ratio                     0.33   1.10      0.07      0.77   0.25     1.10      1.30   0.31
Control Delay                  0.7   58.8       2.0      10.3     0.5   209.4     262.5   33.9
Queue Delay                    0.0    0.0       0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0    0.0
Total Delay                    0.7   58.8       2.0      10.3     0.5   209.4     262.5   33.9
Queue Length 50th (ft)           3 ~1848          1      377        1    ~50      ~122       0
Queue Length 95th (ft)         m2 m#1602        m1       422      m5     #55      #204      26
Internal Link Dist (ft)             2582                  858             402       409
Turn Bay Length (ft)          450               150               540                      470
Base Capacity (vph)           297   1403        109     1449    1295       49        70     84
Starvation Cap Reductn           0      0          0        0       0       0         0      0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0      0          0        0       0       0         0      0
Storage Cap Reductn              0      0          0        0       0       0         0      0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.33   1.10       0.07     0.77    0.25    1.10      1.30   0.31
Intersection Summary
~ Volume exceeds capacity, queue is theoretically infinite.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




11/6/2011                                                                                              Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                   Page 3




                                                                                                                            Page 361
2: SR 714 & SW 42 Ave                                                                      Opt 3 - C160,Splits,Offsets Optimized
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                                  2031 - AM Peak



Movement                            EBL     EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT       WBR          NBL     NBT      NBR      SBL      SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         79     1232        0          6      893       261        16          0      9      66          0       19
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                1700      1700     1700      1900     1900      1900       1900     1900     1900    1900      1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                 5.5       5.8                5.5       5.8       5.8                 6.0                       6.0      6.0
Lane Util. Factor                  1.00      1.00               1.00     1.00      1.00                1.00                       1.00     1.00
Frt                                1.00      1.00               1.00     1.00      0.85                0.95                       1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                      0.95      1.00               0.95     1.00      1.00                0.97                       1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                 1524      1604               1703     1792      1524                1719                       1863     1583
Flt Permitted                     0.17       1.00              0.03      1.00     1.00                 0.55                       1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   270     1604                  55    1792      1524                  975                      1863     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF              0.86      0.86    0.86       0.86     0.86      0.86       0.50     0.50     0.50    0.78      0.78     0.78
Growth Factor (vph)             108%       108%     108%     108%      108%      108%        108%    108%      108%    108%     108%     108%
Adj. Flow (vph)                      99     1547        0          8    1121        328         35         0      19      91         0       26
RTOR Reduction (vph)                   0        0       0          0         0       63          0       13        0       0         0       25
Lane Group Flow (vph)                99     1547        0          8    1121       265           0       41        0       0        91        1
Heavy Vehicles (%)                  6%        6%      6%         6%       6%        6%         2%       2%       2%      2%        2%       2%
Turn Type                       pm+pt                        pm+pt               Perm        Perm                      Perm              Perm
Protected Phases                       1       6                   5        2                             4                         8
Permitted Phases                       6                           2                  2         4                         8                  8
Actuated Green, G (s)            142.2     135.5              130.6    129.4     129.4                 6.0                        6.0      6.0
Effective Green, g (s)           142.2     135.5              130.6    129.4     129.4                 6.0                        6.0      6.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.89       0.85               0.82     0.81      0.81               0.04                       0.04     0.04
Clearance Time (s)                   5.5      5.8                5.5      5.8       5.8                6.0                        6.0      6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)               5.0       5.0                5.0      5.0       5.0                4.0                        4.0      4.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                 297      1358                  57    1449      1233                  37                         70       59
v/s Ratio Prot                   c0.02     c0.96                0.00    0.63
v/s Ratio Perm                     0.28                         0.11              0.17                0.04                       0.05     0.00
v/c Ratio                          0.33     1.14                0.14    0.77      0.22                1.12                       1.30     0.02
Uniform Delay, d1                  11.3     12.2                52.1     7.8       3.5                77.0                       77.0     74.2
Progression Factor                 0.37     0.71                0.95    0.90      0.75                1.00                       1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2               0.1     63.6                 1.6     2.8       0.3               186.3                      207.5      0.2
Delay (s)                           4.3     72.3                51.1     9.8       2.9               263.3                      284.5     74.3
Level of Service                       A       E                   D       A         A                   F                          F        E
Approach Delay (s)                          68.3                         8.5                         263.3                      237.8
Approach LOS                                   E                           A                             F                          F
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                             50.9         HCM Level of Service                           D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          1.15
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            160.0         Sum of lost time (s)                         17.3
Intersection Capacity Utilization                   97.3%          ICU Level of Service                            F
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2011                                                                                                                  Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                       Page 4




                                                                                                                                                  Page 362
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd                                                  Opt 3 - C160,Splits,Offsets Optimized
Queues                                                                                                             2031 - AM Peak



Lane Group                    EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT        WBR       NBL    NBT    NBR      SBL      SBT    SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)         839      579       64      232     528         60      184    475     475     173      326     856
v/c Ratio                     0.72     0.38    0.09     0.71    0.75       0.17      0.65   0.82   0.84     0.81     0.62    0.94
Control Delay                 41.8     25.1     5.0     82.2    67.6       12.7      56.1   76.6   29.0     73.4     69.6    38.2
Queue Delay                    0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0       0.0    0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Total Delay                   41.8     25.1     5.0     82.2    67.6       12.7      56.1   76.6   29.0     73.4     69.6    38.2
Queue Length 50th (ft)        368      186        1      122     280          0      153    253     115     143      172     490
Queue Length 95th (ft)       m330     m168      m3       170     351         42      204    287     199    #223      216    #725
Internal Link Dist (ft)                427                       454                         502                      595
Turn Bay Length (ft)                             315     240                410       300                   400               500
Base Capacity (vph)           1169    1530      716     367         705    363       298    641    587     215       548     911
Starvation Cap Reductn            0       0        0       0           0      0         0      0      0       0         0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0       0        0       0           0      0         0      0      0       0         0       0
Storage Cap Reductn               0       0        0       0           0      0         0      0      0       0         0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.72    0.38     0.09    0.63        0.75   0.17      0.62   0.74   0.81    0.80      0.59    0.94
Intersection Summary
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




11/6/2011                                                                                                     Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                          Page 5




                                                                                                                                    Page 363
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd                                                         Opt 3 - C160,Splits,Offsets Optimized
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                                  2031 - AM Peak



Movement                            EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR         NBL     NBT      NBR       SBL       SBT       SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                      773         533        59     209      476        54      151      390      390       149       281       737
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1700        1700     1700     1900     1900     1900      1900     1900     1900     1900       1900      1900
Total Lost time (s)                6.0         6.3      6.3      5.5      5.8      5.8       5.8      6.0      6.0       5.9       5.9       6.0
Lane Util. Factor                 0.97        0.95     1.00     0.97     0.95     1.00      1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00       0.95      1.00
Frt                               1.00        1.00     0.85     1.00     1.00     0.85      1.00     1.00     0.85     1.00       1.00      0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95        1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95       1.00      1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                2956        3047     1363     3303     3406     1524      1770     3539     1583     1770       3539      1583
Flt Permitted                     0.95        1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00      0.32     1.00     1.00     0.22       1.00      1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                2956        3047     1363     3303     3406     1524        597    3539     1583       405      3539      1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.93        0.93     0.93     0.91     0.91     0.91      0.83     0.83     0.83     0.87       0.87      0.87
Growth Factor (vph)             101%        101%     101%     101%     101%     101%      101%     101%     101%     101%       101%      101%
Adj. Flow (vph)                    839         579       64      232      528       60       184      475      475      173        326      856
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0           0       32        0        0       48         0        0     306          0         0        52
Lane Group Flow (vph)             839         579        32     232      528        12      184      475      169       173       326       804
Heavy Vehicles (%)                 6%          6%       6%       6%       6%       6%        2%       2%       2%       2%         2%        2%
Turn Type                         Prot               Perm       Prot            Perm      pm+pt             Perm     pm+pt               pm+ov
Protected Phases                     3          8                  7       4                   1       6                   5        2          3
Permitted Phases                                          8                          4         6                 6         2                   2
Actuated Green, G (s)               63.0    80.3      80.3     15.8     33.1     33.1      42.9     26.2     26.2      37.7      23.7      86.7
Effective Green, g (s)              63.0    80.3      80.3     15.8     33.1     33.1      42.9     26.2     26.2      37.7      23.7      86.7
Actuated g/C Ratio                   0.39    0.50     0.50     0.10     0.21     0.21      0.27     0.16     0.16      0.24      0.15       0.54
Clearance Time (s)                    6.0     6.3       6.3      5.5      5.8      5.8       5.8      6.0      6.0       5.9       5.9       6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)                 3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0       3.0       3.0        3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                  1164    1529       684      326      705      315       283      580      259       215       524       858
v/s Ratio Prot                       0.28    0.19              0.07    c0.16                0.07   c0.13              c0.07      0.09     c0.37
v/s Ratio Perm                                        0.02                       0.01       0.11             0.11      0.12                 0.14
v/c Ratio                           0.72     0.38     0.05     0.71     0.75     0.04       0.65    0.82     0.65      0.80      0.62       0.94
Uniform Delay, d1                   41.1     24.5     20.3     69.9     59.6     50.7       48.3    64.6     62.6      52.5      63.9       34.1
Progression Factor                  0.97     0.98     0.99     1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00      1.00      1.00       1.00
Incremental Delay, d2                0.8      0.3      0.0      7.2      7.2      0.2        5.3     8.8      5.8      19.2       2.3      17.3
Delay (s)                           40.7     24.3     20.3     77.0     66.7     51.0       53.6    73.4     68.4      71.7      66.2       51.4
Level of Service                       D        C        C        E        E        D          D       E        E          E        E          D
Approach Delay (s)                           33.4                       68.5                        68.1                         57.6
Approach LOS                                    C                          E                           E                            E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                              54.5        HCM Level of Service                         D
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                           0.90
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                             160.0        Sum of lost time (s)                      29.7
Intersection Capacity Utilization                    82.5%         ICU Level of Service                         E
Analysis Period (min)                                    15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2011                                                                                                                 Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                      Page 6




                                                                                                                                                   Page 364
                                                             Opt 3 - C160,Splits,Offsets Optimized
Arterial Level of Service                                                               2031 - AM Peak

Arterial Level of Service: EB SR 714
                       Arterial    Flow   Running   Signal        Travel    Dist   Arterial    Arterial
Cross Street           Class      Speed     Time    Delay       Time (s)    (mi)   Speed          LOS
SW Citrus Blvd         I             50      50.8     82.2        133.0     0.70      19.1           E
SW 42 Ave              I             45      44.4     58.8        103.2     0.50      17.6           E
TPK NB Off Ramp        I             45      49.3     25.1          74.4    0.62      29.8           C
Total                  I                    144.5   166.1         310.6     1.83      21.2           D

Arterial Level of Service: WB SR 714
                       Arterial    Flow   Running   Signal        Travel    Dist   Arterial    Arterial
Cross Street           Class      Speed     Time    Delay       Time (s)    (mi)   Speed          LOS
SW Martin Downs Blvd   II            45      29.4     67.6          97.0    0.30      11.0           F
SW 42 Ave              II            45      49.3     10.3          59.6    0.62      37.2           A
SW Citrus Blvd         II            45      44.4     28.4          72.8    0.50      24.9           C
Total                  II                   123.1   106.3         229.4     1.42      22.2           C




11/6/2011                                                                           Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                Page 7




                                                                                                          Page 365
1: SR 714 & SW Citrus Blvd                                                      Opt 3 - C160,Splits,Offsets Optimized
Queues                                                                                                          2031 - PM PEAK



Lane Group                    EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)           24     653       80      306     705     482         95     97    296    134        36      36
v/c Ratio                     0.10     0.71    0.10     0.66     0.65   0.45       0.38   0.61   0.73    0.55     0.19    0.18
Control Delay                 21.8     36.6     4.2     24.1     13.3     1.2      59.5   85.8   17.7    66.8     65.6    19.7
Queue Delay                    0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
Total Delay                   21.8     36.6     4.2     24.1     13.3     1.2      59.5   85.8   17.7    66.8     65.6    19.7
Queue Length 50th (ft)          13     553        0      111     262      38         82   100        0   119        34       0
Queue Length 95th (ft)          27     611       25     m46     m105     m1        137    153      75    166        62      27
Internal Link Dist (ft)                902                      2582                       586                     496
Turn Bay Length (ft)           420               420     285              365       240           575     365              365
Base Capacity (vph)           245      914      816     470     1078    1074       247    361    545     243      388     358
Starvation Cap Reductn           0        0        0       0        0       0         0      0      0       0        0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0        0        0       0        0       0         0      0      0       0        0       0
Storage Cap Reductn              0        0        0       0        0       0         0      0      0       0        0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.10     0.71     0.10    0.65     0.65    0.45      0.38   0.27   0.54    0.55     0.09    0.10
Intersection Summary
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




11/6/2011                                                                                                   Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                        Page 1




                                                                                                                                 Page 366
1: SR 714 & SW Citrus Blvd                                                              Opt 3 - C160,Splits,Offsets Optimized
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                                 2031 - PM PEAK



Movement                            EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR         NBL     NBT      NBR       SBL       SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                        19       514       63       269      620      424        76       77      236        97        26       26
Ideal Flow (vphpl)               1900      1900     1900      1700     1700     1700      1900     1900     1900     1900       1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                6.0       6.2      6.2       6.0      6.2      6.2       6.0      6.4      6.4       6.0       4.1      4.1
Lane Util. Factor                 1.00      1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00     1.00
Frt                               1.00      1.00     0.85      1.00     1.00     0.85      1.00     1.00     0.85     1.00       1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                     0.95      1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95       1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                1703      1792     1524      1524     1604     1363      1770     1863     1583     1770       1863     1583
Flt Permitted                     0.21      1.00     1.00      0.25     1.00     1.00      0.65     1.00     1.00     0.69       1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                  369     1792     1524        399    1604     1363      1206     1863     1583     1277       1863     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF             0.85      0.85     0.85      0.95     0.95     0.95      0.86     0.86     0.86     0.78       0.78     0.78
Growth Factor (vph)             108%      108%     108%     108%      108%     108%      108%     108%     108%     108%       108%     108%
Adj. Flow (vph)                     24       653       80       306      705      482        95       97      296      134         36       36
RTOR Reduction (vph)                 0         0       41         0        0     168          0        0     269          0         0       33
Lane Group Flow (vph)               24      653        39      306      705      314         95       97       27      134         36        3
Heavy Vehicles (%)                 6%        6%       6%        6%       6%       6%        2%       2%       2%       2%         2%       2%
Turn Type                       pm+pt              Perm     pm+pt              Perm      pm+pt             Perm     pm+pt               Perm
Protected Phases                     1        6                   5       2                   7       4                   3        8
Permitted Phases                     6                  6         2                2          4                 4         8                 8
Actuated Green, G (s)            78.4      78.4     78.4     104.5    104.3    104.3      28.4     14.5     14.5      27.3      15.1     15.1
Effective Green, g (s)           78.4      78.4     78.4     104.5    104.3    104.3      28.4     14.5     14.5      27.3      15.1     15.1
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.49      0.49     0.49      0.65      0.65    0.65      0.18     0.09     0.09      0.17      0.09     0.09
Clearance Time (s)                 6.0       6.2      6.2       6.0      6.2     6.2        6.0      6.4      6.4       6.0       4.1     4.1
Vehicle Extension (s)              3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0      3.0     3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0       3.0       3.0      3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                217       878      747       474     1046     889        263      169      143       255       176     149
v/s Ratio Prot                    0.00    c0.36                0.12   c0.44                0.03   c0.05              c0.04      0.02
v/s Ratio Perm                   0.05               0.03      0.30              0.23      0.03              0.02      0.05               0.00
v/c Ratio                         0.11     0.74     0.05       0.65    0.67     0.35       0.36    0.57     0.19      0.53      0.20     0.02
Uniform Delay, d1                 25.2     32.7     21.4       35.6    17.3     12.6       57.2    69.8     67.3      59.5      66.9     65.8
Progression Factor                1.00     1.00     1.00       0.76    0.74     1.10       1.00    1.00     1.00      1.00      1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2              0.2      5.7      0.1        0.3     0.3      0.1        0.8     4.7      0.6       2.0       0.6      0.1
Delay (s)                         25.4     38.4     21.5       27.2    13.2     14.0       58.0    74.4     67.9      61.5      67.5     65.8
Level of Service                     C        D        C          C       B        B          E       E        E          E        E        E
Approach Delay (s)                         36.2                        16.3                        67.3                         63.3
Approach LOS                                  D                           B                           E                            E
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            33.2         HCM Level of Service                         C
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         0.64
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           160.0         Sum of lost time (s)                      12.2
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  73.9%          ICU Level of Service                        D
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2011                                                                                                                Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                     Page 2




                                                                                                                                                 Page 367
2: SR 714 & SW 42 Ave                                                             Opt 3 - C160,Splits,Offsets Optimized
Queues                                                                                                     2031 - PM PEAK



Lane Group                    EBL      EBT     WBL    WBT       WBR        NBT       SBT    SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)           34    1087       10   1507        95         32      465     159
v/c Ratio                     0.34     0.84    0.05    1.34     0.10       0.35      1.43   0.44
Control Delay                 20.7     17.1      3.6 180.6       0.8       49.4     253.8   25.9
Queue Delay                    0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0        0.0       0.0     0.0
Total Delay                   20.7     17.1      3.6 180.6       0.8       49.4     253.8   25.9
Queue Length 50th (ft)           4     162         2 ~2107         0         16     ~655      51
Queue Length 95th (ft)        m21      736      m3 m#2186        m4          25     #579      66
Internal Link Dist (ft)               2582              870                 402       409
Turn Bay Length (ft)          450               150                  540                     470
Base Capacity (vph)             99    1294      184   1121          981      91      326    362
Starvation Cap Reductn           0        0        0      0            0      0         0      0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0        0        0      0            0      0         0      0
Storage Cap Reductn              0        0        0      0            0      0         0      0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.34     0.84    0.05    1.34         0.10   0.35      1.43   0.44
Intersection Summary
~ Volume exceeds capacity, queue is theoretically infinite.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




11/6/2011                                                                                                Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                     Page 3




                                                                                                                              Page 368
2: SR 714 & SW 42 Ave                                                                     Opt 3 - C160,Splits,Offsets Optimized
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                                 2031 - PM PEAK



Movement                            EBL    EBT       EBR      WBL       WBT      WBR         NBL     NBT      NBR      SBL      SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                         29      916        0           9    1326        84        9          0      7     293          0      100
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                1900     1900      1900      1700      1700     1700      1900     1900     1900    1900      1900     1900
Total Lost time (s)                 5.5      5.8                  5.5      5.8      5.8                 6.0                       6.0       6.0
Lane Util. Factor                  1.00     1.00                1.00      1.00     1.00               1.00                       1.00     1.00
Frt                                1.00     1.00                1.00      1.00     0.85               0.94                       1.00     0.85
Flt Protected                      0.95     1.00                0.95      1.00     1.00               0.97                       1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                 1703     1792                1524      1604     1363               1705                       1863     1583
Flt Permitted                     0.04      1.00               0.11       1.00    1.00                0.26                       1.00     1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                    64    1792                  182     1604     1363                 455                      1863     1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF              0.91     0.91     0.91       0.95      0.95     0.95      0.54     0.54     0.54    0.68      0.68     0.68
Growth Factor (vph)             108%      108%      108%     108%       108%     108%       108%    108%      108%    108%     108%     108%
Adj. Flow (vph)                      34    1087         0         10     1507        95        18         0      14     465         0      159
RTOR Reduction (vph)                  0        0        0           0        0       29         0       12        0       0         0       85
Lane Group Flow (vph)                34    1087         0         10     1507        66         0       20        0       0      465        74
Heavy Vehicles (%)                  6%       6%       6%         6%        6%       6%        2%       2%       2%      2%        2%       2%
Turn Type                       pm+pt                        pm+pt               Perm       Perm                      Perm              Perm
Protected Phases                      1       6                     5       2                            4                         8
Permitted Phases                      6                             2                2         4                         8                  8
Actuated Green, G (s)            116.3    112.3               113.1     110.7    110.7               28.0                       28.0     28.0
Effective Green, g (s)           116.3    112.3               113.1     110.7    110.7               28.0                       28.0     28.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                0.73     0.70                 0.71      0.69    0.69               0.18                       0.18     0.18
Clearance Time (s)                  5.5      5.8                  5.5      5.8     5.8                6.0                         6.0     6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)               3.0      3.0                 3.0       3.0     3.0                3.0                         3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                   87    1258                 149      1110     943                  80                        326     277
v/s Ratio Prot                   c0.01      0.61                0.00    c0.94
v/s Ratio Perm                     0.27                         0.05              0.05               0.04                       0.25     0.05
v/c Ratio                          0.39    0.86                 0.07     1.36     0.07               0.26                       1.43     0.27
Uniform Delay, d1                  43.5    18.1                 20.6     24.6      8.0               57.0                       66.0     57.1
Progression Factor                 1.47    0.65                 0.65     0.77     0.48               1.00                       1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2               2.3     6.4                   0.1   164.8      0.1                1.7                      208.8      0.5
Delay (s)                          66.0    18.1                 13.6    183.9      3.9               58.7                      274.8     57.6
Level of Service                      E       B                     B       F        A                  E                          F        E
Approach Delay (s)                         19.5                         172.2                        58.7                      219.5
Approach LOS                                  B                             F                           E                          F
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            129.4          HCM Level of Service                         F
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                          1.34
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                            160.0          Sum of lost time (s)                       17.3
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  118.3%           ICU Level of Service                         H
Analysis Period (min)                                   15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2011                                                                                                                 Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                      Page 4




                                                                                                                                                  Page 369
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd                                                   Opt 3 - C160,Splits,Offsets Optimized
Queues                                                                                                               2031 - PM PEAK



Lane Group                    EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT        WBR        NBL    NBT     NBR      SBL       SBT     SBR
Lane Group Flow (vph)         759      489      160      563     521        111         99    281     204     167       464     1048
v/c Ratio                     0.45     0.27    0.18     0.85     0.86      0.31       0.73    0.77   0.59     0.77      0.94     1.01
Control Delay                 12.9     19.7      3.4    43.3     76.2      10.9       82.3    84.1   15.3     76.6      94.5     57.5
Queue Delay                    0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0        0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Delay                   12.9     19.7      3.4    43.3     76.2      10.9       82.3    84.1   15.3     76.6      94.5     57.5
Queue Length 50th (ft)        133      115         1     135     280           0        86    153        0    151       256    ~1071
Queue Length 95th (ft)       m161     m169      m9       170    #370         56      #147    #216      83    #228      #336    #1277
Internal Link Dist (ft)                427                        457                          502                       584
Turn Bay Length (ft)                             315     240                410        300                    400                 500
Base Capacity (vph)           1674    1838      896     791         609    361        136    367     347     220       498      1037
Starvation Cap Reductn            0       0        0       0           0      0          0      0       0       0         0         0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0       0        0       0           0      0          0      0       0       0         0         0
Storage Cap Reductn               0       0        0       0           0      0          0      0       0       0         0         0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.45    0.27     0.18    0.71        0.86   0.31       0.73   0.77    0.59    0.76      0.93      1.01
Intersection Summary
~ Volume exceeds capacity, queue is theoretically infinite.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.




11/6/2011                                                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                            Page 5




                                                                                                                                        Page 370
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd                                                       Opt 3 - C160,Splits,Offsets Optimized
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                                                              2031 - PM PEAK



Movement                            EBL    EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR         NBL     NBT      NBR      SBU       SBL      SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                       653      416      136      507      469      100         89     253      184       11      131       399
Ideal Flow (vphpl)                1900     1900     1900     1700     1700     1700      1900     1900     1900     1900     1900      1900
Total Lost time (s)                 6.0      6.3      6.3      5.5      5.8      5.8       5.8      6.0      6.0                5.9      5.9
Lane Util. Factor                  0.97     0.95     1.00     0.97     0.95     1.00      1.00     0.95     1.00              1.00      0.95
Frt                                1.00     1.00     0.85     1.00     1.00     0.85      1.00     1.00     0.85              1.00      1.00
Flt Protected                     0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95     1.00     1.00      0.95     1.00     1.00               0.95      1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)                 3303     3406     1524     2956     3047     1363      1770     3539     1583              1770      3539
Flt Permitted                      0.18     1.00     1.00     0.47     1.00     1.00      0.24     1.00     1.00              0.26      1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)                   609    3406     1524     1474     3047     1363        449    3539     1583                475     3539
Peak-hour factor, PHF              0.86     0.86     0.86     0.91     0.91     0.91      0.91     0.91     0.91    0.86      0.86      0.86
Growth Factor (vph)             100%      101%     101%     101%     101%     101%      101%     101%     101%     101%     101%      100%
Adj. Flow (vph)                     759      489      160      563      521      111        99      281      204      13       154      464
RTOR Reduction (vph)                  0        0       74        0        0       89         0        0     183        0          0        0
Lane Group Flow (vph)              759      489        86     563      521        22        99     281        21       0      167       464
Heavy Vehicles (%)                  6%       6%       6%       6%       6%       6%        2%       2%       2%      2%        2%        2%
Turn Type                       pm+pt              Perm     pm+pt             Perm      pm+pt             Perm     pm+pt    pm+pt
Protected Phases                      3       8                  7       4                   1       6                 5          5       2
Permitted Phases                      8                 8        4                 4         6                 6       2          2
Actuated Green, G (s)            111.6    86.4      86.4     51.7     32.0     32.0      24.6     16.6     16.6               36.0     22.4
Effective Green, g (s)           111.6    86.4      86.4     51.7     32.0     32.0      24.6     16.6     16.6               36.0     22.4
Actuated g/C Ratio                 0.70    0.54     0.54     0.32     0.20     0.20      0.15     0.10     0.10               0.22     0.14
Clearance Time (s)                  6.0     6.3       6.3      5.5      5.8      5.8       5.8      6.0      6.0                5.9      5.9
Vehicle Extension (s)               3.0     3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0                 3.0     3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)                1672    1839       823      659      609      273       135      367      164                217      495
v/s Ratio Prot                     0.21    0.14               0.11   c0.17                0.04    0.08                       c0.07     0.13
v/s Ratio Perm                     0.11             0.06      0.17             0.02       0.08             0.01               0.11
v/c Ratio                          0.45    0.27     0.10      0.85    0.86     0.08       0.73    0.77     0.13               0.77     0.94
Uniform Delay, d1                  15.5    19.8     17.9      49.9    61.8     52.0       61.1    69.8     65.1               53.6     68.1
Progression Factor                 0.92    0.95     1.14      1.00    1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00               1.00     1.00
Incremental Delay, d2               0.1     0.2      0.1     10.5     14.3      0.6      18.5      9.2      0.4               15.1     25.4
Delay (s)                          14.4    18.9     20.6      60.4    76.1     52.6       79.5    79.0     65.5               68.7     93.5
Level of Service                      B       B        C         E       E        D          E       E        E                   E       F
Approach Delay (s)                         16.7                       66.5                        74.4                                 83.5
Approach LOS                                  B                          E                           E                                    F
Intersection Summary
HCM Average Control Delay                            58.9        HCM Level of Service                         E
HCM Volume to Capacity ratio                         1.02
Actuated Cycle Length (s)                           160.0        Sum of lost time (s)                      23.7
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  91.8%         ICU Level of Service                         F
Analysis Period (min)                                  15
c Critical Lane Group




11/6/2011                                                                                                              Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                                                   Page 6




                                                                                                                                               Page 371
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd                Opt 3 - C160,Splits,Offsets Optimized
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                            2031 - PM PEAK



Movement                   SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                892
Ideal Flow (vphpl)         1900
Total Lost time (s)          6.0
Lane Util. Factor           1.00
Frt                         0.85
Flt Protected               1.00
Satd. Flow (prot)          1583
Flt Permitted               1.00
Satd. Flow (perm)          1583
Peak-hour factor, PHF       0.86
Growth Factor (vph)       101%
Adj. Flow (vph)            1048
RTOR Reduction (vph)          26
Lane Group Flow (vph)      1022
Heavy Vehicles (%)           2%
Turn Type                pm+ov
Protected Phases               3
Permitted Phases               2
Actuated Green, G (s)      96.5
Effective Green, g (s)     96.5
Actuated g/C Ratio          0.60
Clearance Time (s)           6.0
Vehicle Extension (s)        3.0
Lane Grp Cap (vph)          955
v/s Ratio Prot            c0.50
v/s Ratio Perm              0.15
v/c Ratio                   1.07
Uniform Delay, d1           31.8
Progression Factor          1.00
Incremental Delay, d2      49.7
Delay (s)                   81.5
Level of Service               F
Approach Delay (s)
Approach LOS
Intersection Summary




11/6/2011                                                              Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                   Page 7




                                                                                            Page 372
                                                             Opt 3 - C160,Splits,Offsets Optimized
Arterial Level of Service                                                              2031 - PM PEAK

Arterial Level of Service: EB SR 714
                       Arterial    Flow   Running   Signal        Travel    Dist   Arterial    Arterial
Cross Street           Class      Speed     Time    Delay       Time (s)    (mi)   Speed          LOS
SW Citrus Blvd         I             50      18.6     36.6          55.2    0.19      12.1           F
SW 42 Ave              I             45      44.4     17.1          61.5    0.50      29.5           C
TPK NB Off Ramp        I             45      49.3     19.7          69.0    0.62      32.1           C
Total                  I                    112.3     73.4        185.7     1.31      25.3           D

Arterial Level of Service: WB SR 714
                       Arterial    Flow   Running   Signal        Travel    Dist   Arterial    Arterial
Cross Street           Class      Speed     Time    Delay       Time (s)    (mi)   Speed          LOS
SW Martin Downs Blvd   II            45      26.9     76.2        103.1     0.26       9.0           F
SW 42 Ave              II            45      49.3   180.6         229.9     0.62       9.6           F
SW Citrus Blvd         II            45      44.4     13.3          57.7    0.50      31.5           B
Total                  II                   120.6   270.1         390.7     1.38      12.7           F




11/6/2011                                                                           Synchro 7 - Report
                                                                                                Page 8




                                                                                                          Page 373
1: SR 714 & SW Citrus Blvd                 Geometric Improvements+Signal Timing Optimization
Queues                                                                                 $0 3HDN



/DQH *URXS               (%/   (%7   (%5   :%/   :%7   :%5   1%/   1%7   1%5   6%/    6%7    6%5
/DQH *URXS )ORZ YSK                                                                          
YF 5DWLR                                                                                     
&RQWURO 'HOD\                                                                                 
4XHXH 'HOD\                                                                                   
7RWDO 'HOD\                                                                                   
4XHXH /HQJWK WK IW                                                                            
4XHXH /HQJWK WK IW                                                                           
,QWHUQDO /LQN 'LVW IW                                                                
7XUQ %D\ /HQJWK IW                                                                          
%DVH &DSDFLW\ YSK                                                                           
6WDUYDWLRQ &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                                       
6SLOOEDFN &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                                        
6WRUDJH &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                                          
5HGXFHG YF 5DWLR                                                                             
,QWHUVHFWLRQ 6XPPDU\




                                                                                 6\QFKUR   5HSRUW
                                                                                           3DJH 




                                                                                                    Page 374
1: SR 714 & SW Citrus Blvd             Geometric Improvements+Signal Timing Optimization
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                  $0 3HDN



0RYHPHQW                            (%/   (%7   (%5    :%/    :%7     :%5         1%/    1%7   1%5     6%/    6%7     6%5
/DQH &RQILJXUDWLRQV
9ROXPH YSK                                                                                                           
,GHDO )ORZ YSKSO                                                                                                    
7RWDO /RVW WLPH V                                                                                                     
/DQH 8WLO )DFWRU                                                                                                      
)UW                                                                                                                   
)OW 3URWHFWHG                                                                                                         
6DWG )ORZ SURW                                                                                                      
)OW 3HUPLWWHG                                                                                                         
6DWG )ORZ SHUP                                                                                                      
3HDNKRXU IDFWRU 3+)                                                                                                   
*URZWK )DFWRU YSK                                                                                                   
$GM )ORZ YSK                                                                                                         
5725 5HGXFWLRQ YSK                                                                                                   
/DQH *URXS )ORZ YSK                                                                                                   
+HDY\ 9HKLFOHV                                                                                                        
7XUQ 7\SH                       SPSW            3HUP   SPSW           3HUP       6SOLW         3HUP   6SOLW          3HUP
3URWHFWHG 3KDVHV                                                                                                 
3HUPLWWHG 3KDVHV                                                                                                      
$FWXDWHG *UHHQ * V                                                                                                   
(IIHFWLYH *UHHQ J V                                                                                                  
$FWXDWHG J& 5DWLR                                                                                                     
&OHDUDQFH 7LPH V                                                                                                     
9HKLFOH ([WHQVLRQ V                                                                                                  
/DQH *US &DS YSK                                                                                                     
YV 5DWLR 3URW                             F                   F                                       F       
YV 5DWLR 3HUP                                                                                  F                      
YF 5DWLR                                                                                                              
8QLIRUP 'HOD\ G                                                                                                       
3URJUHVVLRQ )DFWRU                                                                                                    
,QFUHPHQWDO 'HOD\ G                                                                                                   
'HOD\ V                                                                                                              
/HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                   &      '     &         %   &        &          (      (      )      (      (       '
$SSURDFK 'HOD\ V                                                                                             
$SSURDFK /26                              '                   &                          (                    (
,QWHUVHFWLRQ 6XPPDU\
+&0 $YHUDJH &RQWURO 'HOD\                                 +&0 /HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                   '
+&0 9ROXPH WR &DSDFLW\ UDWLR                    
$FWXDWHG &\FOH /HQJWK V                                  6XP RI ORVW WLPH V                  
,QWHUVHFWLRQ &DSDFLW\ 8WLOL]DWLRQ                         ,&8 /HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                 &
$QDO\VLV 3HULRG PLQ                            
F &ULWLFDO /DQH *URXS




                                                                                                          6\QFKUR   5HSRUW
                                                                                                                    3DJH 




                                                                                                                             Page 375
2: SR 714 & SW 42 Ave                                 Geometric Improvements+Signal Timing Optimization
Queues                                                                                        $0 3HDN



/DQH *URXS                   (%/    (%7      :%/     :%7     :%5   1%7   6%/   6%7
/DQH *URXS )ORZ YSK                                                            
YF 5DWLR                                                                       
&RQWURO 'HOD\                                                                   
4XHXH 'HOD\                                                                     
7RWDO 'HOD\                                                                     
4XHXH /HQJWK WK IW                                                              
4XHXH /HQJWK WK IW          P                P                                  
,QWHUQDO /LQN 'LVW IW                                                         
7XUQ %D\ /HQJWK IW                                          
%DVH &DSDFLW\ YSK                                                             
6WDUYDWLRQ &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                         
6SLOOEDFN &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                          
6WRUDJH &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                            
5HGXFHG YF 5DWLR                                                               
,QWHUVHFWLRQ 6XPPDU\
P 9ROXPH IRU WK SHUFHQWLOH TXHXH LV PHWHUHG E\ XSVWUHDP VLJQDO




                                                                                          6\QFKUR   5HSRUW
                                                                                                    3DJH 




                                                                                                             Page 376
2: SR 714 & SW 42 Ave                  Geometric Improvements+Signal Timing Optimization
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                  $0 3HDN



0RYHPHQW                            (%/   (%7   (%5   :%/    :%7     :%5        1%/    1%7   1%5    6%/   6%7     6%5
/DQH &RQILJXUDWLRQV
9ROXPH YSK                                                                                                      
,GHDO )ORZ YSKSO                                                                                                
7RWDO /RVW WLPH V                                                                                        
/DQH 8WLO )DFWRU                                                                                          
)UW                                                                                                       
)OW 3URWHFWHG                                                                                             
6DWG )ORZ SURW                                                                                           
)OW 3HUPLWWHG                                                                                             
6DWG )ORZ SHUP                                                                                           
3HDNKRXU IDFWRU 3+)                                                                                              
*URZWK )DFWRU YSK                                                                                               
$GM )ORZ YSK                                                                                                    
5725 5HGXFWLRQ YSK                                                                                               
/DQH *URXS )ORZ YSK                                                                                              
+HDY\ 9HKLFOHV                                                                                                  
7XUQ 7\SH                       SPSW                  SPSW           3HUP       3HUP               3HUP
3URWHFWHG 3KDVHV                                                                                             
3HUPLWWHG 3KDVHV                                                                                   
$FWXDWHG *UHHQ * V                                                                                       
(IIHFWLYH *UHHQ J V                                                                                      
$FWXDWHG J& 5DWLR                                                                                         
&OHDUDQFH 7LPH V                                                                                         
9HKLFOH ([WHQVLRQ V                                                                                      
/DQH *US &DS YSK                                                                                         
YV 5DWLR 3URW                    F        F                                                               
YV 5DWLR 3HUP                                                                                      F
YF 5DWLR                                                                                                  
8QLIRUP 'HOD\ G                                                                                           
3URJUHVVLRQ )DFWRU                                                                                        
,QFUHPHQWDO 'HOD\ G                                                                                       
'HOD\ V                                                                                                  
/HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                   $      $              $   $        $                (            (     (
$SSURDFK 'HOD\ V                                                                                         
$SSURDFK /26                              $                  $                         (                  (
,QWHUVHFWLRQ 6XPPDU\
+&0 $YHUDJH &RQWURO 'HOD\                                +&0 /HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                 %
+&0 9ROXPH WR &DSDFLW\ UDWLR                    
$FWXDWHG &\FOH /HQJWK V                                 6XP RI ORVW WLPH V                 
,QWHUVHFWLRQ &DSDFLW\ 8WLOL]DWLRQ                        ,&8 /HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                %
$QDO\VLV 3HULRG PLQ                            
F &ULWLFDO /DQH *URXS




                                                                                                      6\QFKUR   5HSRUW
                                                                                                                3DJH 




                                                                                                                         Page 377
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd                      Geometric Improvements+Signal Timing Optimization
Queues                                                                                                $0 3HDN



/DQH *URXS                   (%/     (%7     (%5     :%/        :%7   :%5   1%/   1%7   1%5   6%/    6%7    6%5
/DQH *URXS )ORZ YSK                                                                                         
YF 5DWLR                                                                                                    
&RQWURO 'HOD\                                                                                               
4XHXH 'HOD\                                                                                                  
7RWDO 'HOD\                                                                                                 
4XHXH /HQJWK WK IW                                                                                          
4XHXH /HQJWK WK IW                                                                                          
,QWHUQDO /LQN 'LVW IW                                                                               
7XUQ %D\ /HQJWK IW                                                                                         
%DVH &DSDFLW\ YSK                                                                                          
6WDUYDWLRQ &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                                                      
6SLOOEDFN &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                                                       
6WRUDJH &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                                                         
5HGXFHG YF 5DWLR                                                                                            
,QWHUVHFWLRQ 6XPPDU\
    WK SHUFHQWLOH YROXPH H[FHHGV FDSDFLW\ TXHXH PD\ EH ORQJHU
    4XHXH VKRZQ LV PD[LPXP DIWHU WZR F\FOHV




                                                                                                6\QFKUR   5HSRUW
                                                                                                          3DJH 




                                                                                                                   Page 378
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd       Geometric Improvements+Signal Timing Optimization
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                  $0 3HDN



0RYHPHQW                            (%/   (%7   (%5    :%/    :%7     :%5         1%/   1%7   1%5     6%/   6%7     6%5
/DQH &RQILJXUDWLRQV
9ROXPH YSK                                                                                                         
,GHDO )ORZ YSKSO                                                                                                  
7RWDO /RVW WLPH V                                                                                                  
/DQH 8WLO )DFWRU                                                                                                    
)UW                                                                                                                 
)OW 3URWHFWHG                                                                                                       
6DWG )ORZ SURW                                                                                                    
)OW 3HUPLWWHG                                                                                                       
6DWG )ORZ SHUP                                                                                                    
3HDNKRXU IDFWRU 3+)                                                                                                 
*URZWK )DFWRU YSK                                                                                                 
$GM )ORZ YSK                                                                                                       
5725 5HGXFWLRQ YSK                                                                                                 
/DQH *URXS )ORZ YSK                                                                                                
+HDY\ 9HKLFOHV                                                                                                     
7XUQ 7\SH                       3URW            3HUP   3URW           3HUP       SPSW         3HUP   SPSW         SPRY
3URWHFWHG 3KDVHV                                                                                                     
3HUPLWWHG 3KDVHV                                                                                                     
$FWXDWHG *UHHQ * V                                                                                                 
(IIHFWLYH *UHHQ J V                                                                                                
$FWXDWHG J& 5DWLR                                                                                                   
&OHDUDQFH 7LPH V                                                                                                   
9HKLFOH ([WHQVLRQ V                                                                                                
/DQH *US &DS YSK                                                                                                   
YV 5DWLR 3URW                   F                             F                   F                         F       
YV 5DWLR 3HUP                                                                                                       
YF 5DWLR                                                                                                            
8QLIRUP 'HOD\ G                                                                                                     
3URJUHVVLRQ )DFWRU                                                                                                  
,QFUHPHQWDO 'HOD\ G                                                                                                 
'HOD\ V                                                                                                            
/HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                    (     &     &      (      '        '            (   (     (         '   (        &
$SSURDFK 'HOD\ V                                                                                           
$SSURDFK /26                              '                   (                         (                   '
,QWHUVHFWLRQ 6XPPDU\
+&0 $YHUDJH &RQWURO 'HOD\                                 +&0 /HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                  '
+&0 9ROXPH WR &DSDFLW\ UDWLR                    
$FWXDWHG &\FOH /HQJWK V                                  6XP RI ORVW WLPH V                 
,QWHUVHFWLRQ &DSDFLW\ 8WLOL]DWLRQ                         ,&8 /HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                '
$QDO\VLV 3HULRG PLQ                            
F &ULWLFDO /DQH *URXS




                                                                                                        6\QFKUR   5HSRUW
                                                                                                                  3DJH 




                                                                                                                           Page 379
                                          Geometric Improvements+Signal Timing Optimization
Arterial Level of Service                                                             $0 3HDN

Arterial Level of Service: EB SR 714
                       $UWHULDO    )ORZ   5XQQLQJ   6LJQDO     7UDYHO   'LVW   $UWHULDO   $UWHULDO
&URVV 6WUHHW           &ODVV      6SHHG     7LPH    'HOD\    7LPH V    PL    6SHHG         /26
6: &LWUXV %OYG         ,                                                                        &
6:  $YH                ,                                                                        %
73. 1% 2II 5DPS        ,                                                                        &
7RWDO                  ,                                                                        &

Arterial Level of Service: WB SR 714
                       $UWHULDO    )ORZ   5XQQLQJ   6LJQDO     7UDYHO   'LVW   $UWHULDO   $UWHULDO
&URVV 6WUHHW           &ODVV      6SHHG     7LPH    'HOD\    7LPH V    PL    6SHHG         /26
6: 0DUWLQ 'RZQV %OYG   ,,                                                                       )
6:  $YH                ,,                                                                       $
6: &LWUXV %OYG         ,,                                                                       &
7RWDO                  ,,                                                                       &




                                                                                6\QFKUR   5HSRUW
                                                                                          3DJH 




                                                                                                     Page 380
1: SR 714 & SW Citrus Blvd                        Geometric Improvements+Signal Optimization
Queues                                                                                 30 3($.



/DQH *URXS               (%/   (%7   (%5   :%/   :%7   :%5   1%/   1%7   1%5   6%/    6%7    6%5
/DQH *URXS )ORZ YSK                                                                          
YF 5DWLR                                                                                     
&RQWURO 'HOD\                                                                                
4XHXH 'HOD\                                                                                   
7RWDO 'HOD\                                                                                  
4XHXH /HQJWK WK IW                                                                            
4XHXH /HQJWK WK IW                                                                           
,QWHUQDO /LQN 'LVW IW                                                                
7XUQ %D\ /HQJWK IW                                                                          
%DVH &DSDFLW\ YSK                                                                           
6WDUYDWLRQ &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                                       
6SLOOEDFN &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                                        
6WRUDJH &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                                          
5HGXFHG YF 5DWLR                                                                             
,QWHUVHFWLRQ 6XPPDU\




                                                                                 6\QFKUR   5HSRUW
                                                                                           3DJH 




                                                                                                    Page 381
1: SR 714 & SW Citrus Blvd                    Geometric Improvements+Signal Optimization
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                  30 3($.



0RYHPHQW                            (%/   (%7   (%5    :%/    :%7     :%5         1%/    1%7   1%5     6%/    6%7     6%5
/DQH &RQILJXUDWLRQV
9ROXPH YSK                                                                                                            
,GHDO )ORZ YSKSO                                                                                                    
7RWDO /RVW WLPH V                                                                                                     
/DQH 8WLO )DFWRU                                                                                                      
)UW                                                                                                                   
)OW 3URWHFWHG                                                                                                         
6DWG )ORZ SURW                                                                                                      
)OW 3HUPLWWHG                                                                                                         
6DWG )ORZ SHUP                                                                                                      
3HDNKRXU IDFWRU 3+)                                                                                                   
*URZWK )DFWRU YSK                                                                                                   
$GM )ORZ YSK                                                                                                          
5725 5HGXFWLRQ YSK                                                                                                    
/DQH *URXS )ORZ YSK                                                                                                    
+HDY\ 9HKLFOHV                                                                                                        
7XUQ 7\SH                       SPSW            3HUP   SPSW           3HUP       6SOLW         3HUP   6SOLW          3HUP
3URWHFWHG 3KDVHV                                                                                                 
3HUPLWWHG 3KDVHV                                                                                                      
$FWXDWHG *UHHQ * V                                                                                                   
(IIHFWLYH *UHHQ J V                                                                                                  
$FWXDWHG J& 5DWLR                                                                                                     
&OHDUDQFH 7LPH V                                                                                                     
9HKLFOH ([WHQVLRQ V                                                                                                  
/DQH *US &DS YSK                                                                                                     
YV 5DWLR 3URW                             F                   F                  F                    F       
YV 5DWLR 3HUP                                                                                                         
YF 5DWLR                                                                                                              
8QLIRUP 'HOD\ G                                                                                                       
3URJUHVVLRQ )DFWRU                                                                                                    
,QFUHPHQWDO 'HOD\ G                                                                                                   
'HOD\ V                                                                                                              
/HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                   %      &     %         $   $        %          (      (     (       (      (       (
$SSURDFK 'HOD\ V                                                                                             
$SSURDFK /26                              &                   $                          (                    (
,QWHUVHFWLRQ 6XPPDU\
+&0 $YHUDJH &RQWURO 'HOD\                                 +&0 /HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                   &
+&0 9ROXPH WR &DSDFLW\ UDWLR                    
$FWXDWHG &\FOH /HQJWK V                                  6XP RI ORVW WLPH V                  
,QWHUVHFWLRQ &DSDFLW\ 8WLOL]DWLRQ                         ,&8 /HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                 %
$QDO\VLV 3HULRG PLQ                            
F &ULWLFDO /DQH *URXS




                                                                                                          6\QFKUR   5HSRUW
                                                                                                                    3DJH 




                                                                                                                             Page 382
2: SR 714 & SW 42 Ave                                            Geometric Improvements+Signal Optimization
Queues                                                                                            30 3($.



/DQH *URXS                   (%/     (%7     :%/     :%7     :%5     1%7   6%/   6%7
/DQH *URXS )ORZ YSK                                                             
YF 5DWLR                                                                         
&RQWURO 'HOD\                                                                    
4XHXH 'HOD\                                                                       
7RWDO 'HOD\                                                                      
4XHXH /HQJWK WK IW                                                               
4XHXH /HQJWK WK IW          P                P              P                    
,QWHUQDO /LQN 'LVW IW                                                           
7XUQ %D\ /HQJWK IW                                              
%DVH &DSDFLW\ YSK                                                               
6WDUYDWLRQ &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                           
6SLOOEDFN &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                            
6WRUDJH &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                              
5HGXFHG YF 5DWLR                                                                 
,QWHUVHFWLRQ 6XPPDU\
P 9ROXPH IRU WK SHUFHQWLOH TXHXH LV PHWHUHG E\ XSVWUHDP VLJQDO




                                                                                              6\QFKUR   5HSRUW
                                                                                                        3DJH 




                                                                                                                 Page 383
2: SR 714 & SW 42 Ave                         Geometric Improvements+Signal Optimization
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                  30 3($.



0RYHPHQW                            (%/   (%7   (%5   :%/    :%7     :%5        1%/    1%7   1%5    6%/   6%7     6%5
/DQH &RQILJXUDWLRQV
9ROXPH YSK                                                                                                      
,GHDO )ORZ YSKSO                                                                                                
7RWDO /RVW WLPH V                                                                                        
/DQH 8WLO )DFWRU                                                                                          
)UW                                                                                                       
)OW 3URWHFWHG                                                                                             
6DWG )ORZ SURW                                                                                           
)OW 3HUPLWWHG                                                                                             
6DWG )ORZ SHUP                                                                                           
3HDNKRXU IDFWRU 3+)                                                                                              
*URZWK )DFWRU YSK                                                                                               
$GM )ORZ YSK                                                                                                    
5725 5HGXFWLRQ YSK                                                                                               
/DQH *URXS )ORZ YSK                                                                                              
+HDY\ 9HKLFOHV                                                                                                  
7XUQ 7\SH                       SPSW                  SPSW           3HUP       3HUP               3HUP
3URWHFWHG 3KDVHV                                                                                             
3HUPLWWHG 3KDVHV                                                                                   
$FWXDWHG *UHHQ * V                                                                                       
(IIHFWLYH *UHHQ J V                                                                                      
$FWXDWHG J& 5DWLR                                                                                         
&OHDUDQFH 7LPH V                                                                                         
9HKLFOH ([WHQVLRQ V                                                                                      
/DQH *US &DS YSK                                                                                         
YV 5DWLR 3URW                    F                           F                                            
YV 5DWLR 3HUP                                                                                      F
YF 5DWLR                                                                                                  
8QLIRUP 'HOD\ G                                                                                           
3URJUHVVLRQ )DFWRU                                                                                        
,QFUHPHQWDO 'HOD\ G                                                                                       
'HOD\ V                                                                                                  
/HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                   %      %              %   &        $                '            (     '
$SSURDFK 'HOD\ V                                                                                         
$SSURDFK /26                              %                  &                         '                  (
,QWHUVHFWLRQ 6XPPDU\
+&0 $YHUDJH &RQWURO 'HOD\                                +&0 /HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                 &
+&0 9ROXPH WR &DSDFLW\ UDWLR                    
$FWXDWHG &\FOH /HQJWK V                                 6XP RI ORVW WLPH V                 
,QWHUVHFWLRQ &DSDFLW\ 8WLOL]DWLRQ                        ,&8 /HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                &
$QDO\VLV 3HULRG PLQ                            
F &ULWLFDO /DQH *URXS




                                                                                                      6\QFKUR   5HSRUW
                                                                                                                3DJH 




                                                                                                                         Page 384
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd                                 Geometric Improvements+Signal Optimization
Queues                                                                                               30 3($.



/DQH *URXS                   (%/     (%7     (%5     :%/     :%7     :%5   1%/   1%7   1%5   6%/    6%7    6%5
/DQH *URXS )ORZ YSK                                                                                        
YF 5DWLR                                                                                                   
&RQWURO 'HOD\                                                                                              
4XHXH 'HOD\                                                                                                 
7RWDO 'HOD\                                                                                                
4XHXH /HQJWK WK IW                                                                                         
4XHXH /HQJWK WK IW                          P                                                              
,QWHUQDO /LQN 'LVW IW                                                                              
7XUQ %D\ /HQJWK IW                                                                                        
%DVH &DSDFLW\ YSK                                                                                         
6WDUYDWLRQ &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                                                     
6SLOOEDFN &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                                                      
6WRUDJH &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                                                        
5HGXFHG YF 5DWLR                                                                                           
,QWHUVHFWLRQ 6XPPDU\
P 9ROXPH IRU WK SHUFHQWLOH TXHXH LV PHWHUHG E\ XSVWUHDP VLJQDO




                                                                                               6\QFKUR   5HSRUW
                                                                                                         3DJH 




                                                                                                                  Page 385
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd              Geometric Improvements+Signal Optimization
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                  30 3($.



0RYHPHQW                            (%/   (%7   (%5    :%/    :%7     :%5         1%/   1%7   1%5     6%8    6%/    6%7
/DQH &RQILJXUDWLRQV
9ROXPH YSK                                                                                                        
,GHDO )ORZ YSKSO                                                                                                  
7RWDO /RVW WLPH V                                                                                                 
/DQH 8WLO )DFWRU                                                                                                   
)UW                                                                                                                
)OW 3URWHFWHG                                                                                                      
6DWG )ORZ SURW                                                                                                    
)OW 3HUPLWWHG                                                                                                      
6DWG )ORZ SHUP                                                                                                    
3HDNKRXU IDFWRU 3+)                                                                                                
*URZWK )DFWRU YSK                                                                                                 
$GM )ORZ YSK                                                                                                      
5725 5HGXFWLRQ YSK                                                                                                
/DQH *URXS )ORZ YSK                                                                                               
+HDY\ 9HKLFOHV                                                                                                    
7XUQ 7\SH                       3URW            3HUP   3URW           3HUP       SPSW         3HUP   SPSW   SPSW
3URWHFWHG 3KDVHV                                                                                                      
3HUPLWWHG 3KDVHV                                                                                               
$FWXDWHG *UHHQ * V                                                                                                 
(IIHFWLYH *UHHQ J V                                                                                                
$FWXDWHG J& 5DWLR                                                                                                   
&OHDUDQFH 7LPH V                                                                                                   
9HKLFOH ([WHQVLRQ V                                                                                                
/DQH *US &DS YSK                                                                                                   
YV 5DWLR 3URW                   F                      F                          F                                F
YV 5DWLR 3HUP                                                                                                
YF 5DWLR                                                                                                            
8QLIRUP 'HOD\ G                                                                                                     
3URJUHVVLRQ )DFWRU                                                                                                  
,QFUHPHQWDO 'HOD\ G                                                                                                 
'HOD\ V                                                                                                            
/HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                    (     '     '      '      '        '            '   '     '                '    (
$SSURDFK 'HOD\ V                                                                                                   
$SSURDFK /26                              '                   '                         '                           '
,QWHUVHFWLRQ 6XPPDU\
+&0 $YHUDJH &RQWURO 'HOD\                                 +&0 /HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                  '
+&0 9ROXPH WR &DSDFLW\ UDWLR                    
$FWXDWHG &\FOH /HQJWK V                                  6XP RI ORVW WLPH V                 
,QWHUVHFWLRQ &DSDFLW\ 8WLOL]DWLRQ                         ,&8 /HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                &
$QDO\VLV 3HULRG PLQ                            
F &ULWLFDO /DQH *URXS




                                                                                                        6\QFKUR   5HSRUW
                                                                                                                  3DJH 




                                                                                                                           Page 386
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd              Geometric Improvements+Signal Optimization
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                  30 3($.



0RYHPHQW                6%5
/DQH &RQILJXUDWLRQV
9ROXPH YSK              
,GHDO )ORZ YSKSO       
7RWDO /RVW WLPH V       
/DQH 8WLO )DFWRU         
)UW                      
)OW 3URWHFWHG            
6DWG )ORZ SURW         
)OW 3HUPLWWHG            
6DWG )ORZ SHUP         
3HDNKRXU IDFWRU 3+)      
*URZWK )DFWRU YSK      
$GM )ORZ YSK            
5725 5HGXFWLRQ YSK      
/DQH *URXS )ORZ YSK     
+HDY\ 9HKLFOHV          
7XUQ 7\SH              SPRY
3URWHFWHG 3KDVHV          
3HUPLWWHG 3KDVHV          
$FWXDWHG *UHHQ * V      
(IIHFWLYH *UHHQ J V     
$FWXDWHG J& 5DWLR        
&OHDUDQFH 7LPH V        
9HKLFOH ([WHQVLRQ V     
/DQH *US &DS YSK        
YV 5DWLR 3URW            
YV 5DWLR 3HUP            
YF 5DWLR                 
8QLIRUP 'HOD\ G          
3URJUHVVLRQ )DFWRU       
,QFUHPHQWDO 'HOD\ G      
'HOD\ V                 
/HYHO RI 6HUYLFH          &
$SSURDFK 'HOD\ V
$SSURDFK /26
,QWHUVHFWLRQ 6XPPDU\




                                                                           6\QFKUR   5HSRUW
                                                                                     3DJH 




                                                                                              Page 387
                                                    Geometric Improvements+Signal Optimization
Arterial Level of Service                                                               30 3($.

Arterial Level of Service: EB SR 714
                       $UWHULDO    )ORZ   5XQQLQJ      6LJQDO     7UDYHO   'LVW   $UWHULDO   $UWHULDO
&URVV 6WUHHW           &ODVV      6SHHG     7LPH       'HOD\    7LPH V    PL    6SHHG         /26
6: &LWUXV %OYG         ,,                                                                          %
6:  $YH                ,,                                                                          %
73. 1% 2II 5DPS        ,,                                                                          &
7RWDO                  ,,                                                                          %

Arterial Level of Service: WB SR 714
                       $UWHULDO    )ORZ   5XQQLQJ      6LJQDO     7UDYHO   'LVW   $UWHULDO   $UWHULDO
&URVV 6WUHHW           &ODVV      6SHHG     7LPH       'HOD\    7LPH V    PL    6SHHG         /26
6: 0DUWLQ 'RZQV %OYG   ,,                                                                          (
6:  $YH                ,,                                                                          %
6: &LWUXV %OYG         ,,                                                                          %
7RWDO                  ,,                                                                          &




                                                                                   6\QFKUR   5HSRUW
                                                                                             3DJH 




                                                                                                        Page 388
1: SR 714 & SW Citrus Blvd                                       Geometric Improvements+Signal Optimization
Queues                                                                                                $0 3HDN



/DQH *URXS                   (%/     (%7     (%5     :%/        :%7   :%5   1%/   1%7   1%5   6%/    6%7    6%5
/DQH *URXS )ORZ YSK                                                                                         
YF 5DWLR                                                                                                    
&RQWURO 'HOD\                                                                                                
4XHXH 'HOD\                                                                                                  
7RWDO 'HOD\                                                                                                  
4XHXH /HQJWK WK IW                                                                                           
4XHXH /HQJWK WK IW                                                                                          
,QWHUQDO /LQN 'LVW IW                                                                               
7XUQ %D\ /HQJWK IW                                                                                         
%DVH &DSDFLW\ YSK                                                                                          
6WDUYDWLRQ &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                                                      
6SLOOEDFN &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                                                       
6WRUDJH &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                                                         
5HGXFHG YF 5DWLR                                                                                            
,QWHUVHFWLRQ 6XPPDU\
    WK SHUFHQWLOH YROXPH H[FHHGV FDSDFLW\ TXHXH PD\ EH ORQJHU
    4XHXH VKRZQ LV PD[LPXP DIWHU WZR F\FOHV




                                                                                                6\QFKUR   5HSRUW
                                                                                                          3DJH 




                                                                                                                   Page 389
1: SR 714 & SW Citrus Blvd                    Geometric Improvements+Signal Optimization
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                  $0 3HDN



0RYHPHQW                            (%/   (%7   (%5    :%/    :%7     :%5         1%/    1%7   1%5     6%/    6%7     6%5
/DQH &RQILJXUDWLRQV
9ROXPH YSK                                                                                                           
,GHDO )ORZ YSKSO                                                                                                    
7RWDO /RVW WLPH V                                                                                                     
/DQH 8WLO )DFWRU                                                                                                      
)UW                                                                                                                   
)OW 3URWHFWHG                                                                                                         
6DWG )ORZ SURW                                                                                                      
)OW 3HUPLWWHG                                                                                                         
6DWG )ORZ SHUP                                                                                                      
3HDNKRXU IDFWRU 3+)                                                                                                   
*URZWK )DFWRU YSK                                                                                                   
$GM )ORZ YSK                                                                                                         
5725 5HGXFWLRQ YSK                                                                                                   
/DQH *URXS )ORZ YSK                                                                                                   
+HDY\ 9HKLFOHV                                                                                                        
7XUQ 7\SH                       SPSW            3HUP   SPSW           3HUP       6SOLW         3HUP   6SOLW          3HUP
3URWHFWHG 3KDVHV                                                                                                 
3HUPLWWHG 3KDVHV                                                                                                      
$FWXDWHG *UHHQ * V                                                                                                   
(IIHFWLYH *UHHQ J V                                                                                                  
$FWXDWHG J& 5DWLR                                                                                                     
&OHDUDQFH 7LPH V                                                                                                     
9HKLFOH ([WHQVLRQ V                                                                                                  
/DQH *US &DS YSK                                                                                                     
YV 5DWLR 3URW                                           F     F                                       F       
YV 5DWLR 3HUP                                                                                  F                      
YF 5DWLR                                                                                                              
8QLIRUP 'HOD\ G                                                                                                       
3URJUHVVLRQ )DFWRU                                                                                                    
,QFUHPHQWDO 'HOD\ G                                                                                                   
'HOD\ V                                                                                                              
/HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                   &      '     '         &   '        &          (      (      (      (      (       '
$SSURDFK 'HOD\ V                                                                                             
$SSURDFK /26                              '                   &                          (                    (
,QWHUVHFWLRQ 6XPPDU\
+&0 $YHUDJH &RQWURO 'HOD\                                 +&0 /HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                   '
+&0 9ROXPH WR &DSDFLW\ UDWLR                    
$FWXDWHG &\FOH /HQJWK V                                  6XP RI ORVW WLPH V                  
,QWHUVHFWLRQ &DSDFLW\ 8WLOL]DWLRQ                         ,&8 /HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                 '
$QDO\VLV 3HULRG PLQ                            
F &ULWLFDO /DQH *URXS




                                                                                                          6\QFKUR   5HSRUW
                                                                                                                    3DJH 




                                                                                                                             Page 390
2: SR 714 & SW 42 Ave                                            Geometric Improvements+Signal Optimization
Queues                                                                                            $0 3HDN



/DQH *URXS                   (%/    (%7      :%/     :%7     :%5     1%7   6%/   6%7
/DQH *URXS )ORZ YSK                                                              
YF 5DWLR                                                                         
&RQWURO 'HOD\                                                                     
4XHXH 'HOD\                                                                       
7RWDO 'HOD\                                                                       
4XHXH /HQJWK WK IW                                                                
4XHXH /HQJWK WK IW          P                P              P                     
,QWHUQDO /LQN 'LVW IW                                                           
7XUQ %D\ /HQJWK IW                                                        
%DVH &DSDFLW\ YSK                                                               
6WDUYDWLRQ &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                           
6SLOOEDFN &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                            
6WRUDJH &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                              
5HGXFHG YF 5DWLR                                                                 
,QWHUVHFWLRQ 6XPPDU\
P 9ROXPH IRU WK SHUFHQWLOH TXHXH LV PHWHUHG E\ XSVWUHDP VLJQDO




                                                                                              6\QFKUR   5HSRUW
                                                                                                        3DJH 




                                                                                                                 Page 391
2: SR 714 & SW 42 Ave                         Geometric Improvements+Signal Optimization
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                  $0 3HDN



0RYHPHQW                            (%/   (%7   (%5   :%/    :%7     :%5         1%/   1%7   1%5    6%/   6%7     6%5
/DQH &RQILJXUDWLRQV
9ROXPH YSK                                                                                                      
,GHDO )ORZ YSKSO                                                                                                
7RWDO /RVW WLPH V                                                                                        
/DQH 8WLO )DFWRU                                                                                          
)UW                                                                                                       
)OW 3URWHFWHG                                                                                             
6DWG )ORZ SURW                                                                                           
)OW 3HUPLWWHG                                                                                             
6DWG )ORZ SHUP                                                                                           
3HDNKRXU IDFWRU 3+)                                                                                              
*URZWK )DFWRU YSK                                                                                               
$GM )ORZ YSK                                                                                                    
5725 5HGXFWLRQ YSK                                                                                               
/DQH *URXS )ORZ YSK                                                                                              
+HDY\ 9HKLFOHV                                                                                                  
7XUQ 7\SH                       SPSW                  SPSW           3HUP       SPSW               SPSW
3URWHFWHG 3KDVHV                                                                                             
3HUPLWWHG 3KDVHV                                                                                      
$FWXDWHG *UHHQ * V                                                                                       
(IIHFWLYH *UHHQ J V                                                                                      
$FWXDWHG J& 5DWLR                                                                                         
&OHDUDQFH 7LPH V                                                                                         
9HKLFOH ([WHQVLRQ V                                                                                      
/DQH *US &DS YSK                                                                                         
YV 5DWLR 3URW                    F        F                                                         F     
YV 5DWLR 3HUP                                                                                       F
YF 5DWLR                                                                                                  
8QLIRUP 'HOD\ G                                                                                           
3URJUHVVLRQ )DFWRU                                                                                        
,QFUHPHQWDO 'HOD\ G                                                                                       
'HOD\ V                                                                                                  
/HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                   $      %              $   $        $                )              (   (
$SSURDFK 'HOD\ V                                                                                         
$SSURDFK /26                              %                  $                         )                  (
,QWHUVHFWLRQ 6XPPDU\
+&0 $YHUDJH &RQWURO 'HOD\                                +&0 /HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                  %
+&0 9ROXPH WR &DSDFLW\ UDWLR                    
$FWXDWHG &\FOH /HQJWK V                                 6XP RI ORVW WLPH V                 
,QWHUVHFWLRQ &DSDFLW\ 8WLOL]DWLRQ                        ,&8 /HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                &
$QDO\VLV 3HULRG PLQ                            
F &ULWLFDO /DQH *URXS




                                                                                                      6\QFKUR   5HSRUW
                                                                                                                3DJH 




                                                                                                                         Page 392
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd                                 Geometric Improvements+Signal Optimization
Queues                                                                                               $0 3HDN



/DQH *URXS                   (%/     (%7     (%5     :%/     :%7     :%5   1%/   1%7   1%5   6%/    6%7    6%5
/DQH *URXS )ORZ YSK                                                                                        
YF 5DWLR                                                                                                   
&RQWURO 'HOD\                                                                                              
4XHXH 'HOD\                                                                                                 
7RWDO 'HOD\                                                                                                
4XHXH /HQJWK WK IW         a                                                                               
4XHXH /HQJWK WK IW                           P                                                             
,QWHUQDO /LQN 'LVW IW                                                                              
7XUQ %D\ /HQJWK IW                                                                                        
%DVH &DSDFLW\ YSK                                                                                         
6WDUYDWLRQ &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                                                     
6SLOOEDFN &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                                                      
6WRUDJH &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                                                        
5HGXFHG YF 5DWLR                                                                                           
,QWHUVHFWLRQ 6XPPDU\
a 9ROXPH H[FHHGV FDSDFLW\ TXHXH LV WKHRUHWLFDOO\ LQILQLWH
    4XHXH VKRZQ LV PD[LPXP DIWHU WZR F\FOHV
    WK SHUFHQWLOH YROXPH H[FHHGV FDSDFLW\ TXHXH PD\ EH ORQJHU
    4XHXH VKRZQ LV PD[LPXP DIWHU WZR F\FOHV
P 9ROXPH IRU WK SHUFHQWLOH TXHXH LV PHWHUHG E\ XSVWUHDP VLJQDO




                                                                                               6\QFKUR   5HSRUW
                                                                                                         3DJH 




                                                                                                                  Page 393
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd              Geometric Improvements+Signal Optimization
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                  $0 3HDN



0RYHPHQW                            (%/   (%7   (%5    :%/    :%7     :%5         1%/   1%7   1%5     6%/   6%7     6%5
/DQH &RQILJXUDWLRQV
9ROXPH YSK                                                                                                         
,GHDO )ORZ YSKSO                                                                                                  
7RWDO /RVW WLPH V                                                                                                  
/DQH 8WLO )DFWRU                                                                                                    
)UW                                                                                                                 
)OW 3URWHFWHG                                                                                                       
6DWG )ORZ SURW                                                                                                    
)OW 3HUPLWWHG                                                                                                       
6DWG )ORZ SHUP                                                                                                    
3HDNKRXU IDFWRU 3+)                                                                                                 
*URZWK )DFWRU YSK                                                                                                 
$GM )ORZ YSK                                                                                                       
5725 5HGXFWLRQ YSK                                                                                                 
/DQH *URXS )ORZ YSK                                                                                                
+HDY\ 9HKLFOHV                                                                                                     
7XUQ 7\SH                       3URW            3HUP   3URW          SPRY        SPSW         )UHH   SPSW         SPRY
3URWHFWHG 3KDVHV                                                                                                     
3HUPLWWHG 3KDVHV                                                                              )UHH                   
$FWXDWHG *UHHQ * V                                                                                                 
(IIHFWLYH *UHHQ J V                                                                                                
$FWXDWHG J& 5DWLR                                                                                                   
&OHDUDQFH 7LPH V                                                                                                   
9HKLFOH ([WHQVLRQ V                                                                                                
/DQH *US &DS YSK                                                                                                   
YV 5DWLR 3URW                   F                             F                   F                         F       
YV 5DWLR 3HUP                                                                                 F                     
YF 5DWLR                                                                                                            
8QLIRUP 'HOD\ G                                                                                                     
3URJUHVVLRQ )DFWRU                                                                                                  
,QFUHPHQWDO 'HOD\ G                                                                                                 
'HOD\ V                                                                                                            
/HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                    (     &     &      (      (         '           (   (      $        '   (        &
$SSURDFK 'HOD\ V                                                                                           
$SSURDFK /26                              '                   (                         &                   (
,QWHUVHFWLRQ 6XPPDU\
+&0 $YHUDJH &RQWURO 'HOD\                                 +&0 /HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                  '
+&0 9ROXPH WR &DSDFLW\ UDWLR                    
$FWXDWHG &\FOH /HQJWK V                                  6XP RI ORVW WLPH V                 
,QWHUVHFWLRQ &DSDFLW\ 8WLOL]DWLRQ                         ,&8 /HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                (
$QDO\VLV 3HULRG PLQ                            
F &ULWLFDO /DQH *URXS




                                                                                                        6\QFKUR   5HSRUW
                                                                                                                  3DJH 




                                                                                                                           Page 394
                                                    Geometric Improvements+Signal Optimization
Arterial Level of Service                                                                $0 3HDN

Arterial Level of Service: EB SR 714
                       $UWHULDO    )ORZ   5XQQLQJ      6LJQDO     7UDYHO   'LVW   $UWHULDO   $UWHULDO
&URVV 6WUHHW           &ODVV      6SHHG     7LPH       'HOD\    7LPH V    PL    6SHHG         /26
6: &LWUXV %OYG         ,,                                                                          &
6:  $YH                ,,                                                                          %
73. 1% 2II 5DPS        ,,                                                                          %
7RWDO                  ,,                                                                          &

Arterial Level of Service: WB SR 714
                       $UWHULDO    )ORZ   5XQQLQJ      6LJQDO     7UDYHO   'LVW   $UWHULDO   $UWHULDO
&URVV 6WUHHW           &ODVV      6SHHG     7LPH       'HOD\    7LPH V    PL    6SHHG         /26
6: 0DUWLQ 'RZQV %OYG   ,,                                                                          )
6:  $YH                ,,                                                                          $
6: &LWUXV %OYG         ,,                                                                          '
7RWDO                  ,,                                                                          '




                                                                                   6\QFKUR   5HSRUW
                                                                                             3DJH 




                                                                                                        Page 395
1: SR 714 & SW Citrus Blvd                                       Geometric Improvements+Signal Optimization
Queues                                                                                               30 3($.



/DQH *URXS                   (%/     (%7     (%5     :%/     :%7     :%5   1%/   1%7   1%5   6%/    6%7    6%5
/DQH *URXS )ORZ YSK                                                                                        
YF 5DWLR                                                                                                   
&RQWURO 'HOD\                                                                                              
4XHXH 'HOD\                                                                                                 
7RWDO 'HOD\                                                                                                
4XHXH /HQJWK WK IW                                                                                          
4XHXH /HQJWK WK IW                                  P                                                      
,QWHUQDO /LQN 'LVW IW                                                                              
7XUQ %D\ /HQJWK IW                                                                                        
%DVH &DSDFLW\ YSK                                                                                         
6WDUYDWLRQ &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                                                     
6SLOOEDFN &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                                                      
6WRUDJH &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                                                        
5HGXFHG YF 5DWLR                                                                                           
,QWHUVHFWLRQ 6XPPDU\
P 9ROXPH IRU WK SHUFHQWLOH TXHXH LV PHWHUHG E\ XSVWUHDP VLJQDO




                                                                                               6\QFKUR   5HSRUW
                                                                                                         3DJH 




                                                                                                                  Page 396
1: SR 714 & SW Citrus Blvd                    Geometric Improvements+Signal Optimization
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                  30 3($.



0RYHPHQW                            (%/   (%7   (%5    :%/    :%7     :%5         1%/    1%7   1%5     6%/    6%7     6%5
/DQH &RQILJXUDWLRQV
9ROXPH YSK                                                                                                            
,GHDO )ORZ YSKSO                                                                                                    
7RWDO /RVW WLPH V                                                                                                     
/DQH 8WLO )DFWRU                                                                                                      
)UW                                                                                                                   
)OW 3URWHFWHG                                                                                                         
6DWG )ORZ SURW                                                                                                      
)OW 3HUPLWWHG                                                                                                         
6DWG )ORZ SHUP                                                                                                      
3HDNKRXU IDFWRU 3+)                                                                                                   
*URZWK )DFWRU YSK                                                                                                   
$GM )ORZ YSK                                                                                                          
5725 5HGXFWLRQ YSK                                                                                                    
/DQH *URXS )ORZ YSK                                                                                                    
+HDY\ 9HKLFOHV                                                                                                        
7XUQ 7\SH                       SPSW            3HUP   SPSW           3HUP       6SOLW         3HUP   6SOLW          3HUP
3URWHFWHG 3KDVHV                                                                                                 
3HUPLWWHG 3KDVHV                                                                                                      
$FWXDWHG *UHHQ * V                                                                                                   
(IIHFWLYH *UHHQ J V                                                                                                  
$FWXDWHG J& 5DWLR                                                                                                     
&OHDUDQFH 7LPH V                                                                                                     
9HKLFOH ([WHQVLRQ V                                                                                                  
/DQH *US &DS YSK                                                                                                     
YV 5DWLR 3URW                             F                   F                  F                            F
YV 5DWLR 3HUP                                                                                                         
YF 5DWLR                                                                                                              
8QLIRUP 'HOD\ G                                                                                                       
3URJUHVVLRQ )DFWRU                                                                                                    
,QFUHPHQWDO 'HOD\ G                                                                                                   
'HOD\ V                                                                                                              
/HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                   &      &     &         $   %        $          (      (     (       (      (       (
$SSURDFK 'HOD\ V                                                                                             
$SSURDFK /26                              &                   $                          (                    (
,QWHUVHFWLRQ 6XPPDU\
+&0 $YHUDJH &RQWURO 'HOD\                                 +&0 /HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                   &
+&0 9ROXPH WR &DSDFLW\ UDWLR                    
$FWXDWHG &\FOH /HQJWK V                                  6XP RI ORVW WLPH V                  
,QWHUVHFWLRQ &DSDFLW\ 8WLOL]DWLRQ                         ,&8 /HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                 &
$QDO\VLV 3HULRG PLQ                            
F &ULWLFDO /DQH *URXS




                                                                                                          6\QFKUR   5HSRUW
                                                                                                                    3DJH 




                                                                                                                             Page 397
2: SR 714 & SW 42 Ave                                            Geometric Improvements+Signal Optimization
Queues                                                                                            30 3($.



/DQH *URXS                   (%/    (%7      :%/     :%7     :%5     1%7    6%/   6%7
/DQH *URXS )ORZ YSK                                                              
YF 5DWLR                                                                          
&RQWURO 'HOD\                                                                     
4XHXH 'HOD\                                                                        
7RWDO 'HOD\                                                                       
4XHXH /HQJWK WK IW                                                        a       
4XHXH /HQJWK WK IW           P               P              P                     
,QWHUQDO /LQN 'LVW IW                                                            
7XUQ %D\ /HQJWK IW                                                        
%DVH &DSDFLW\ YSK                                                                
6WDUYDWLRQ &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                            
6SLOOEDFN &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                             
6WRUDJH &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                               
5HGXFHG YF 5DWLR                                                                  
,QWHUVHFWLRQ 6XPPDU\
a 9ROXPH H[FHHGV FDSDFLW\ TXHXH LV WKHRUHWLFDOO\ LQILQLWH
    4XHXH VKRZQ LV PD[LPXP DIWHU WZR F\FOHV
P 9ROXPH IRU WK SHUFHQWLOH TXHXH LV PHWHUHG E\ XSVWUHDP VLJQDO




                                                                                              6\QFKUR   5HSRUW
                                                                                                        3DJH 




                                                                                                                 Page 398
2: SR 714 & SW 42 Ave                         Geometric Improvements+Signal Optimization
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                  30 3($.



0RYHPHQW                            (%/   (%7   (%5   :%/    :%7     :%5         1%/   1%7   1%5    6%/   6%7     6%5
/DQH &RQILJXUDWLRQV
9ROXPH YSK                                                                                                      
,GHDO )ORZ YSKSO                                                                                                
7RWDO /RVW WLPH V                                                                                        
/DQH 8WLO )DFWRU                                                                                          
)UW                                                                                                       
)OW 3URWHFWHG                                                                                             
6DWG )ORZ SURW                                                                                           
)OW 3HUPLWWHG                                                                                             
6DWG )ORZ SHUP                                                                                           
3HDNKRXU IDFWRU 3+)                                                                                              
*URZWK )DFWRU YSK                                                                                               
$GM )ORZ YSK                                                                                                    
5725 5HGXFWLRQ YSK                                                                                               
/DQH *URXS )ORZ YSK                                                                                              
+HDY\ 9HKLFOHV                                                                                                  
7XUQ 7\SH                       SPSW                  SPSW           3HUP       SPSW               SPSW
3URWHFWHG 3KDVHV                                                                                             
3HUPLWWHG 3KDVHV                                                                                      
$FWXDWHG *UHHQ * V                                                                                       
(IIHFWLYH *UHHQ J V                                                                                      
$FWXDWHG J& 5DWLR                                                                                         
&OHDUDQFH 7LPH V                                                                                         
9HKLFOH ([WHQVLRQ V                                                                                      
/DQH *US &DS YSK                                                                                         
YV 5DWLR 3URW                    F                           F                                      F     
YV 5DWLR 3HUP                                                                                       F
YF 5DWLR                                                                                                  
8QLIRUP 'HOD\ G                                                                                           
3URJUHVVLRQ )DFWRU                                                                                        
,QFUHPHQWDO 'HOD\ G                                                                                       
'HOD\ V                                                                                                  
/HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                   %      $              %   &        $                )              )   '
$SSURDFK 'HOD\ V                                                                                         
$SSURDFK /26                              $                  %                         )                  (
,QWHUVHFWLRQ 6XPPDU\
+&0 $YHUDJH &RQWURO 'HOD\                                +&0 /HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                 &
+&0 9ROXPH WR &DSDFLW\ UDWLR                    
$FWXDWHG &\FOH /HQJWK V                                 6XP RI ORVW WLPH V                 
,QWHUVHFWLRQ &DSDFLW\ 8WLOL]DWLRQ                        ,&8 /HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                '
$QDO\VLV 3HULRG PLQ                            
F &ULWLFDO /DQH *URXS




                                                                                                      6\QFKUR   5HSRUW
                                                                                                                3DJH 




                                                                                                                         Page 399
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd                                 Geometric Improvements+Signal Optimization
Queues                                                                                               30 3($.



/DQH *URXS                   (%/     (%7     (%5     :%/     :%7     :%5   1%/   1%7   1%5   6%/    6%7    6%5
/DQH *URXS )ORZ YSK                                                                                        
YF 5DWLR                                                                                                   
&RQWURO 'HOD\                                                                                              
4XHXH 'HOD\                                                                                                 
7RWDO 'HOD\                                                                                                
4XHXH /HQJWK WK IW                                                                                         
4XHXH /HQJWK WK IW                 P        P                                                              
,QWHUQDO /LQN 'LVW IW                                                                              
7XUQ %D\ /HQJWK IW                                                                                        
%DVH &DSDFLW\ YSK                                                                                         
6WDUYDWLRQ &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                                                     
6SLOOEDFN &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                                                      
6WRUDJH &DS 5HGXFWQ                                                                                        
5HGXFHG YF 5DWLR                                                                                           
,QWHUVHFWLRQ 6XPPDU\
    WK SHUFHQWLOH YROXPH H[FHHGV FDSDFLW\ TXHXH PD\ EH ORQJHU
    4XHXH VKRZQ LV PD[LPXP DIWHU WZR F\FOHV
P 9ROXPH IRU WK SHUFHQWLOH TXHXH LV PHWHUHG E\ XSVWUHDP VLJQDO




                                                                                               6\QFKUR   5HSRUW
                                                                                                         3DJH 




                                                                                                                  Page 400
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd              Geometric Improvements+Signal Optimization
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                  30 3($.



0RYHPHQW                            (%/   (%7   (%5    :%/    :%7     :%5         1%/   1%7   1%5     6%8    6%/    6%7
/DQH &RQILJXUDWLRQV
9ROXPH YSK                                                                                                        
,GHDO )ORZ YSKSO                                                                                                  
7RWDO /RVW WLPH V                                                                                                 
/DQH 8WLO )DFWRU                                                                                                   
)UW                                                                                                                
)OW 3URWHFWHG                                                                                                      
6DWG )ORZ SURW                                                                                                    
)OW 3HUPLWWHG                                                                                                      
6DWG )ORZ SHUP                                                                                                    
3HDNKRXU IDFWRU 3+)                                                                                                
*URZWK )DFWRU YSK                                                                                                 
$GM )ORZ YSK                                                                                                      
5725 5HGXFWLRQ YSK                                                                                                
/DQH *URXS )ORZ YSK                                                                                               
+HDY\ 9HKLFOHV                                                                                                    
7XUQ 7\SH                       3URW            3HUP   3URW           3HUP       SPSW         )UHH   SPSW   SPSW
3URWHFWHG 3KDVHV                                                                                                      
3HUPLWWHG 3KDVHV                                                                              )UHH             
$FWXDWHG *UHHQ * V                                                                                                 
(IIHFWLYH *UHHQ J V                                                                                                
$FWXDWHG J& 5DWLR                                                                                                   
&OHDUDQFH 7LPH V                                                                                                   
9HKLFOH ([WHQVLRQ V                                                                                                
/DQH *US &DS YSK                                                                                                   
YV 5DWLR 3URW                   F                             F                   F                                F
YV 5DWLR 3HUP                                                                                                
YF 5DWLR                                                                                                            
8QLIRUP 'HOD\ G                                                                                                     
3URJUHVVLRQ )DFWRU                                                                                                  
,QFUHPHQWDO 'HOD\ G                                                                                                 
'HOD\ V                                                                                                            
/HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                    (     '     '      (      (        '            '   '     $                &    (
$SSURDFK 'HOD\ V                                                                                                   
$SSURDFK /26                              '                   (                         &                           '
,QWHUVHFWLRQ 6XPPDU\
+&0 $YHUDJH &RQWURO 'HOD\                                 +&0 /HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                  '
+&0 9ROXPH WR &DSDFLW\ UDWLR                    
$FWXDWHG &\FOH /HQJWK V                                  6XP RI ORVW WLPH V                 
,QWHUVHFWLRQ &DSDFLW\ 8WLOL]DWLRQ                         ,&8 /HYHO RI 6HUYLFH                '
$QDO\VLV 3HULRG PLQ                            
F &ULWLFDO /DQH *URXS




                                                                                                        6\QFKUR   5HSRUW
                                                                                                                  3DJH 




                                                                                                                           Page 401
5: SR 714 & SW Martin Downs Blvd              Geometric Improvements+Signal Optimization
HCM Signalized Intersection Capacity Analysis                                  30 3($.



0RYHPHQW                6%5
/DQH &RQILJXUDWLRQV
9ROXPH YSK              
,GHDO )ORZ YSKSO       
7RWDO /RVW WLPH V       
/DQH 8WLO )DFWRU         
)UW                      
)OW 3URWHFWHG            
6DWG )ORZ SURW         
)OW 3HUPLWWHG            
6DWG )ORZ SHUP         
3HDNKRXU IDFWRU 3+)      
*URZWK )DFWRU YSK      
$GM )ORZ YSK           
5725 5HGXFWLRQ YSK      
/DQH *URXS )ORZ YSK     
+HDY\ 9HKLFOHV          
7XUQ 7\SH              SPRY
3URWHFWHG 3KDVHV          
3HUPLWWHG 3KDVHV          
$FWXDWHG *UHHQ * V      
(IIHFWLYH *UHHQ J V     
$FWXDWHG J& 5DWLR        
&OHDUDQFH 7LPH V        
9HKLFOH ([WHQVLRQ V     
/DQH *US &DS YSK        
YV 5DWLR 3URW            
YV 5DWLR 3HUP            
YF 5DWLR                 
8QLIRUP 'HOD\ G          
3URJUHVVLRQ )DFWRU       
,QFUHPHQWDO 'HOD\ G      
'HOD\ V                 
/HYHO RI 6HUYLFH          &
$SSURDFK 'HOD\ V
$SSURDFK /26
,QWHUVHFWLRQ 6XPPDU\




                                                                           6\QFKUR   5HSRUW
                                                                                     3DJH 




                                                                                              Page 402
                                                    Geometric Improvements+Signal Optimization
Arterial Level of Service                                                               30 3($.

Arterial Level of Service: EB SR 714
                       $UWHULDO    )ORZ   5XQQLQJ      6LJQDO     7UDYHO   'LVW   $UWHULDO   $UWHULDO
&URVV 6WUHHW           &ODVV      6SHHG     7LPH       'HOD\    7LPH V    PL    6SHHG         /26
6: &LWUXV %OYG         ,,                                                                          %
6:  $YH                ,,                                                                          %
73. 1% 2II 5DPS        ,,                                                                          &
7RWDO                  ,,                                                                          %

Arterial Level of Service: WB SR 714
                       $UWHULDO    )ORZ   5XQQLQJ      6LJQDO     7UDYHO   'LVW   $UWHULDO   $UWHULDO
&URVV 6WUHHW           &ODVV      6SHHG     7LPH       'HOD\    7LPH V    PL    6SHHG         /26
6: 0DUWLQ 'RZQV %OYG   ,,                                                                          )
6:  $YH                ,,                                                                          %
6: &LWUXV %OYG         ,,                                                                          %
7RWDO                  ,,                                                                          &




                                                                                   6\QFKUR   5HSRUW
                                                                                             3DJH 




                                                                                                        Page 403
                        

               Appendix H  
    Armellini Avenue Alternative Route Map 
                




                                              Page 404
                        GHW AY)




                                                                                                                                                                                                      N.
                                                                                                                                                                                                       T



                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N
                                                                                                                                                                                                         .
                                                                                                                                                                                                         S
                     N HI




                                                      RIGHT-IN-RIGHT-OUT ONLY
                MARTI




                                                                                         ARMELLINI AVENUE
          SR 714(




                                         RIGHT LANE

                                          MUST
                                         TURN RIGHT




                                                                                                                                                                   LVD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        L
                                                                                                                                                                 EB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RAI
                                                                                                                                                              RAT




                                                                                                                                                                                                             SW SAND T
                                                                                                                                                          RPO
                                                                                                                                                       CO
                                                                                                                                                    SW
                                                                                                     SR7
                                  100'

                                                                                                        14(MARTI
                                                                                                               ND
                                                                                                                 OWN
                                                                                                                    SB
                                                                                                                      LVD)




LEGEND:
                                                                                                                                 STATE OF FLORIDA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHEET
                                                                                                                          DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
                                                                                3
                                                                                140W S
                                                                                  5   UNRS
                                                                                         IEBLVD,
                                                                                               .SUT
                                                                                                  I 0
                                                                                                   E20                                                                       PROPOSED CONDITION ALTERNATE ACCESS                   NO.
                                                                                SUNRISE, FL. 33323              ROAD NO.            COUNTY      FINANCIAL PROJECT ID

                                                                                E
                                                                                T :
                                                                                  L 9
                                                                                    (5)
                                                                                      4 4
                                                                                        757
                                                                                          -21
                                                                                            0 or75
                                                                                                 4-2
                                                                                                   700
                                                                                FAX:9
                                                                                    (5)
                                                                                      4 4
                                                                                        757
                                                                                          -24
                                                                                            9                    SR 714
                                                                                                                                   MARTIN                   N/A          SR 714 (MARTIN HWY) AT FL TURNPIKE ENT / EXIT              3


                                                                                                         L:\Vivek\SR 714\ALT-ACCESS.dgn                                                                             7/29/2011   11:34:03 AM

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Page 405
                  

         Appendix I  
    Benefit/Cost Calculations


 




                                Page 406
                                                                  Estimated Benefits  Reduction in Delay due to Proposed Improvements 
                                                                                                                                                                    Annual Delay Benefit
                                                                                                                            Delay Reduction (sec/Veh)                                                Average Annual 
                                                                                                                                                                            (4)                                       Average Benefit 
                                                                  Delay Without    Delay with        Delay with                                                                                       Benefit due to 
                                      Peak       Peak Hour                                                                                                                                                                due to 
               Year      AADT (1)                                 Improvements       Signal          Geometric                                 With                                                       Signal 
                                     Period      Volume (2)                                                                   Signal                             Signal              With Geometric  Optimization       Geometric 
                                                                   (Sec/veh) (3) Optimization (3) Improvements (3)                           Geometric 
                                                                                                                           Optimization                       Optimization           Improvements                     Improvements
                                                                                                                                           Improvements                                                (20122021)
Eastbound 
                                       AM             934              93                 63                                    30                          $               
                                                                                                                                                                           32,049
              Existing    16,101
                                       PM             676              75                 61                                    14                          $               
                                                                                                                                                                           10,940
                                       AM            1116              147                96                  71                51                76                       65,396 $               98,287
                                                                                                                                                            $               
               2021       19,245
                                       PM             808              96                 65                  84                30               12                        28,395 $               10,741
                                                                                                                                                            $               
                                       AM            1334              353                166                 87                                 266        $                     
                                                                                                                                                                                      $             
                                                                                                                                                                                                   410,264
               2031       23,004
                                       PM            966               110                73                  85                                 25                              
                                                                                                                                                            $                         $               27,800
                                                                                                                                                                      Annual Delay Benefit
                                                                                                                            Delay Reduction (sec/Veh)
                                                                  Delay Without    Delay with        Delay with                                                                    (4)
                                      Peak       Peak Hour 
               Year      AADT (1)                                 Improvements       Signal          Geometric                                 With                                                            $             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            119,540    $            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   569,885
                                     Period      Volume (2)                                                                   Signal                             Signal              With Geometric 
                                                                    (Sec/veh)    Optimization (3) Improvements (3)                           Geometric 
                                                                                                                           Optimization                       Optimization           Improvements
                                                                                                                                           Improvements
Westbound                              AM            676               116                90                                    26                          $               
                                                                                                                                                                           19,926
              Existing    16,101
                                       PM            934               107                93                                    15                          $               
                                                                                                                                                                           15,863
                                       AM            808               118                92                 83                 26               35         $               
                                                                                                                                                                           23,818    $               32,411
               2021       19,245
                                       PM            1116              210                176                80                 33               130        $               
                                                                                                                                                                           42,694    $             
                                                                                                                                                                                                  167,036
                                       AM             966              163                106                127                                 36                              
                                                                                                                                                            $                        $               39,857
               2031       23,004
                                       PM            1334              331                270                102                                 229        $                     
                                                                                                                                                                                     $             
                                                                                                                                                                                                  353,373

  Notes:     1) Future year AADTs were developed based on a growth factor of 1.8%/year as provided by Martin County 
             2) Peak Hour Volumes were calculated as AADT*D*K. D(am/EB)=D(pm/WB)=0.58.  K=0.10. K and D factors provided by Martin County
             3) Represents delay for east/west traffic with and without improvements. These values were taken from Synchro 7 reports titled "Arterial Level of Service" for the respective analysis year.
             4) Improvement Benefit = Peak Hour Volume x Delay Reduction/3600 x 5 days x 52 weeks x $16 per hour.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Page 407
                       Benefit/Cost Analysis for Proposed Improvements


                                         Estimated    Estimated  Estimated Annual  Estimated 
                                        Project Cost Annual Cost      Benefit         B/C


Signal Timing Improvements and new 
  Detection System at 42nd Avenue       $        123,000 $      12,500   $               
                                                                                        119,540   9.56
(Assumed Signal Timing every 3 years)


      Roadway Improvements              $     
                                             1,000,000   $      
                                                               89,900    $               
                                                                                        569,885   6.34




                                                                                                         Page 408
