                     INTERSECTION CONTROL EVALUATION FOR:




                    STH 16/STH 60 INTERSECTION
                           COLUMBIA COUNTY, WISCONSIN



                                        AUGUST 22, 2013




PREPARED FOR:
WisDOT SE Region
2101 Wright Street
Madison, WI 53704
Phone: (608) 246-3879
Contact Person: James Oettinger, P.E.

PREPARED BY:
Traffic Analysis & Design, Inc.
N36 W7505 Buchanan Ct.
Cedarburg, WI 53012
Phone: (262)-377-1845
Fax: (262)-377-4381
Contact Persons: Tammi Czewski, P.E., PTOE
                 John A. Bieberitz, P.E., PTOE
                                          TABLE OF CONTENTS
CHAPTER I - INTRODUCTION AND EXECUTIVE SUMMARY.............................................1
  PART A - INTRODUCTION ......................................................................................................1
  PART B - EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ........................................................................................1

CHAPTER II ­ EXISTING OPERATING CONDITIONS ............................................................5
  PART A ­ ROADWAY CHARACTERISTICS & PEDESTRIAN ACCOMMODATIONS ....5
  PART B ­ SAFETY ANALYSIS ................................................................................................5
  PART C ­ EXISTING TRAFFIC VOLUMES ...........................................................................6
  PART D ­ EXISTING TRAFFIC CAPACITY ANALYSIS ......................................................6

CHAPTER III ­ TRAFFIC CONTROL ALTERNATIVES ...........................................................8
  PART A ­ FORECASTED TRAFFIC VOLUMES ....................................................................8
  PART B ­ TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL (NO BUILD) ..........................................................8
  PART C ­ TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL (BUILD) .................................................................9
  PART D ­ TRAFFIC SIGNAL CONTROL ...............................................................................9
  PART E ­ ROUNDABOUT CONTROL ..................................................................................11
  PART F ­ INTERSECTION CONTROL EVALUATION.......................................................12
STH 16 & STH 60 Columbia County Intersection Control Evaluation          August 22, 2013


                                 LIST OF APPENDICES
Appendix A ....Safety Analysis
Appendix B ....Traffic Volume Data
              B1. Existing Traffic Counts
              B2. WisDOT Traffic Forecasts

Appendix C ....Traffic Operational Analysis
              C1. Existing 2013 TWSC Analysis ­ No Build
              C2. Forecasted 2014, 2024, 2034 TWSC Analysis ­ No Build
              C3. Forecasted 2014, 2024, 2034 TWSC Analysis ­ Build
              C4. Forecasted 2014, 2024, 2034 Signal Analysis
              C5. Forecasted 2014, 2024, 2034 Roundabout Analysis

Appendix D ....Signal Warrant Studies: Year 2014 & 2034
Appendix E ....ICE Analysis Worksheet
Appendix F.....Traffic Control Alternative Layout Drawings
STH 16 & STH 60 Columbia County Intersection Control Evaluation                      August 8, 2013


       CHAPTER I - INTRODUCTION AND EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
PART A - INTRODUCTION
The STH 16 intersection with STH 60 is located west of USH 151 and includes access directly to
the Columbus West Travel Center, which housed both a BP gas station/convenience store and an
Arby's restaurant. The Wisconsin Department of Transportation (WisDOT) has flagged the
intersection and received Highway Safety Improvement Program (HSIP) funding due to a pattern
of angle crashes that resulted in several injuries and one fatality.
This intersection control evaluation (ICE) report was prepared to further evaluate the traffic
crashes and potential mitigating improvements, the existing traffic operations, and improvement
alternatives for the years 2014, 2024, and 2034.
PART B - EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
B1. Existing Geometrics Traffic Operations & Safety
With the existing year 2013 traffic volumes, the traffic models show that the STH 16 intersection
with STH 60 operates acceptably during the peak hours. Field observation indicated that some
long delays occur for larger trucks exiting the Columbus West Travel Center. Trucks turning left
from the travel center onto southbound STH 16 were also observed to sometimes wait in the
median on STH 16 (which is not wide enough to store trucks), and block northbound lanes on
STH 16. Trucks turning left from southbound STH 16 into the travel center ended up making an
almost "U-turn" movement from the wide left-turn required since the intersection design lacks
enough space to accommodate their turning radius.
An evaluation of traffic crashes indicated that 13 traffic crashes occurred in the five-year period
from 2008 through 2012. At least five crashes occurred in one year, and one crash ended in a
fatality. Over 60 percent of the crashes were angle crashes, the majority of crashes occurred with
vehicles turning at the Columbus West Travel Center, and crash involvement was nearly equal
between cars and trucks. Several of the crashes occurred due to lack of visibility around other
vehicles within the intersection. These and the field observations of geometric and operational
issues indicate that alternative options should be investigated at this intersection.
B2. Traffic Control Alternatives
Different traffic control alternatives were evaluated to address the existing geometric and safety
issues and to accommodate traffic for the construction year 2014, interim year 2024, and design
year 2034. The forecasted traffic prepared by WisDOT included potential traffic from the
Columbus Commerce Center development (located in the southwest corner of the STH 16/STH
60 intersection). The construction year 2014 traffic volumes include phase one buildout of the
Columbus Commerce Center and both the interim year 2024 and design year 2034 traffic
volumes include full buildout of the Columbus Commerce Center.
The following identifies the advantages, disadvantages, and order of magnitude costs for each
alternative. Note that cost estimates are provided a price comparison between alternatives, are
for conceptual use only, and are not based on detailed designs.
Existing TWSC ­ No Build Alternative
The no-build alternative includes the existing two-way stop control and existing layout of lanes,
curbing, medians, etc. at the intersection.



Traffic Analysis & Design, Inc.
STH 16 & STH 60 Columbia County Intersection Control Evaluation                    August 22, 2013


Advantages:
   · Does not require implementation time or cost
    ·   Requires no changes to the existing intersection.
Disadvantages:
   · Does not address existing safety issues (existing crash patterns are expected to continue,
      trucks are expected to continue to block mainline traffic when turning).
    ·   Does not address geometric/turning radii issues (truck turning radii are expected to
        continue to encroach on curbs/adjacent lanes or swing wide to complete turns from STH
        16.
    ·   Does not improve the ability for trucks to turn left onto STH 16 in a single-stage
        movement. Limited gaps in STH 16 traffic will continue to result in trucks blocking
        through traffic on STH 16 while waiting in the median to complete their left turn.
    ·   Does not provide acceptable traffic operations through the design year (high delays and
        traffic queues are expected for side-street turning movements with year 2024 and 2034
        traffic volumes). Operational issues would likely further decrease safety at the
        intersection.
Cost Range: $0
Recommendation: Not recommended for further consideration

Existing TWSC ­ Build Alternative
Geometric improvements were evaluated to provide additional safety for vehicles at the
intersection. These improvements include positively off-set northbound and southbound left-
turn lanes on STH 16, an offset northbound right-turn lane on STH 16, and scaled-back medians
on STH 16 to accommodate turning radii for trucks.
Advantages:
   · Comparatively lower cost than other alternatives.
    ·   Offset left and right-turn lanes could improve safety by reducing crashes due to poor
        visibility at the intersection.
    ·   Scaling back the medians on STH 16 improves the ability for larger trucks to turn left
        into the travel center driveway and onto STH 60 without tracking over curbing or other
        lanes.
    ·   OSOW vehicles are expected to be able to travel through this intersection, but larger
        vehicle wheel paths may encroach on opposing lanes or other pavement areas. Loads on
        these trucks, such as a wind blade, may sweep larger areas that extend past the pavement.
Disadvantages:
   · Does not improve the ability for trucks to turn left onto STH 16 in a single-stage
      movement. Limited gaps in STH 16 traffic will continue to result in trucks blocking
      through traffic on STH 16 while waiting in the median to complete their left turn.
    ·   Does not provide acceptable traffic operations through the design year (high delays and
        traffic queues are expected for side-street turning movements with year 2024 and 2034
        traffic volumes). Operational issues would likely further decrease safety at the
        intersection.
Traffic Analysis & Design, Inc.                                                                   2
STH 16 & STH 60 Columbia County Intersection Control Evaluation                     August 22, 2013


Cost Range: $250,000-$300,000
Recommendation: Not recommended for further consideration

Traffic Signal Alternative
Based on a signal warrant study of the intersection, traffic signal warrants are expected to be met
with both the construction year 2014 and design year 2034 traffic volumes. The additional
traffic expected from the phase one and full buildout of the Columbus Commerce Center is
expected to be high enough to meet the volume requirements for warranting a traffic signal.
Geometric improvements evaluated with the traffic signal alternative include positively off-set
northbound and southbound left-turn lanes on STH 16, an offset northbound right-turn lane on
STH 16, and scaled-back medians on STH 16 to accommodate turning radii for trucks.
Advantages:
   · Traffic signals, which are expected to meet warrants for traffic signal control with the
      construction year 2014 traffic volumes, are expected to provide acceptable traffic
      operations through the design year 2034.
    ·   Signal installation with protected left-turn phasing on STH 16, is expected to improve
        safety at the intersection. In particular, improved safety is expected since during the
        minor street green phase, trucks will be able to turn from the travel center driveway or
        STH 60 in a single-stage turning movement without blocking through traffic on STH 16.
    ·   Offset left and right-turn lanes could improve safety by reducing crashes due to poor
        visibility at the intersection.
    ·   Scaling back the medians on STH 16 improves the ability for larger trucks to turn left
        into the travel center driveway and onto STH 60 without tracking over curbing or other
        lanes.
    ·   OSOW vehicles are expected to be able to travel through this intersection, but larger
        vehicle wheel paths may encroach on opposing lanes or other pavement areas. Loads on
        these trucks, such as a wind blade, may sweep larger areas that extend past the pavement.
Disadvantages:
   · Requires lengthening the existing turn lanes to accommodate both the expected 95th
      percentile traffic queues plus deceleration requirements for a 55-mph roadway (per the
      WisDOT FDM)
    ·   Fixed objects, such as signs, signal poles and light poles may pose greater impact for
        turns from OSOW vehicles. Placement of these objects will need to accommodate
        OSOW turning radii.
    ·   May require additional right-of-way on the Columbus Commerce Center site to
        accommodate recommended turn lane configuration and turn bay lengths on STH 60.
Cost Range: $500,000-$550,000
Recommendation: Recommended for further consideration

Roundabout Alternative
A two-lane roundabout with two-lane entry lanes at each approach was evaluated as a traffic
control alternative.


Traffic Analysis & Design, Inc.                                                                    3
STH 16 & STH 60 Columbia County Intersection Control Evaluation                     August 22, 2013


Advantages:
   · A two-lane roundabout is expected to provide acceptable traffic operations through the
      design year 2034.
    ·   According to industry statistics, roundabouts improve safety over two-way stop
        controlled intersections by reducing all crashes up to 74 percent and injury crashes up to
        89 percent.
    ·   The design is not expected to require additional right-of-way.
Disadvantages:
   · Requires temporary widening of southbound STH 16 to accommodate a "non-yielding"
      eastbound right-turn bypass lane from STH 60.
    ·   Significantly higher construction costs than other alternatives.
    ·   While design vehicles and OSOW vehicles can be accommodated within the roundabout,
        turning movements would require traveling over the raised apron area within the central
        island and may be difficult for some vehicles.
Cost Range: $1,800,000-2,000,000
Recommendation: Recommended for further consideration

B3. Conclusion
Both traffic signal control and roundabout control are expected to improve safety and reduce
traffic crashes, accommodate OSOW vehicles through careful design, and accommodate design
year 2034 traffic volumes. Therefore, it is recommended that WisDOT further evaluate these
alternatives in the second phase of the ICE process.




Traffic Analysis & Design, Inc.                                                                      4
STH 16 & STH 60 Columbia County Intersection Control Evaluation                      August 22, 2013


              CHAPTER II ­ EXISTING OPERATING CONDITIONS
PART A ­ ROADWAY CHARACTERISTICS & PEDESTRIAN ACCOMMODATIONS
A map showing the STH 16 intersection with STH 60 with respecting to the surrounding
roadway system is shown on Exhibit 1. Exhibit 2 is a sketch drawing of the intersection details
such as lane geometrics, traffic control, speed limits, adjacent buildings and driveways. The
STH 16 intersection with STH 60 is in a primarily rural area west of the City of Columbus.
Since both STH 16 and STH 60 are designated as truck routes within the state of Wisconsin, the
interchange with USH 151 is just over 1,000 feet from the intersection, and the BP gas station
serves autos and trucks, there is a high percentage of truck traffic that passes through the
intersection.
STH 16 is a four-lane divided minor arterial that extends throughout Columbia County from
Wisconsin Dells through the City of Columbus. STH 16 generally runs from the northwest to
the southeast, but is referred to as the north/south roadway throughout this ICE report.
According to the WisDOT coverage counts, STH 16 had a 2008 annual average daily traffic
(AADT) volume of 9,800 vehicles per day (vpd) north of the intersection with STH 60 and
14,500 vpd south of the intersection with STH 60. STH 16 has a 55-mph posted speed limit in
the vicinity of the intersection with STH 60. Photographs of the STH 16 approaches to STH 60
and the Columbus West Travel Center driveway are shown on Exhibit 3A.
STH 60 is a two-lane undivided major collector that extends east/west through Columbia County
from Sauk City to the City of Columbus. STH 60 joins STH 16 at the south leg of the
intersection. According to WisDOT coverage counts, STH 16 had a 2008 AADT volume of
1,600 vpd west of the intersection with STH 16. STH 60 has a 55-mph posted speed limit in the
vicinity of the intersection with STH 16. Photographs of the STH 60 and Columbus West Travel
Center approaches to STH 16 are shown on Exhibit 3B.
PART B ­ SAFETY ANALYSIS
Appendix A includes a collision diagram and detailed crash statistics for the STH 16 intersection
with STH 60. In the five-year period from 2008 through 2012, a total of 13 traffic crashes
occurred within the intersection. Six of these crashes were property damage only, six resulted in
injury, and one resulted in death. Both cars and trucks were nearly equally involved in the traffic
crashes and more than 60 percent resulted in moderate to severe damage to the vehicles. Eight of
the 13 crashes (61.5 percent), including the fatality, were angle crashes. The majority of crashes
occurred from vehicles traveling to and from the Columbus West Travel Center. At least three of
the crashes were caused by lack of sight distance/obstructed views at the intersection.
The crash rate for the STH 16 intersection with STH 60 was calculated to be 0.65 crashes per
million entering vehicles (MEV). This crash rate is approximately 36 percent lower than
intersections of similar location, traffic control type, and volumes (1.01 crashes per MEV based on
Intersection Crash Summary Statistics for Wisconsin, 2005, Knapp and Campbell).
Field observations made during the traffic counts indicated that semi-trucks turning left from the
Columbus West Travel Center onto southbound STH 16 sometimes attempt a two-stage left-turn
movement. Since the median is not wide enough to store semi-trucks for this type of movement,
these vehicles end up blocking all northbound STH 16 traffic while waiting for a gap in
southbound STH 16 traffic to complete the turn. The difficulty in finding gaps for a one-stage
turning movement for these trucks results in traffic delays that sometimes last for 1-3 minutes.


Traffic Analysis & Design, Inc.                                                                       5
STH 16 & STH 60 Columbia County Intersection Control Evaluation                     August 22, 2013


Field observations also indicated that semi-trucks turning left from southbound STH 16 into the
Columbus West Travel Center have to make a wide turn, "almost like a U-turn," since the median
is not set back far enough to accommodate the truck turning radius. The issues noted in the field
may be factors in some of the traffic crashes that have occurred at the STH 16 intersection with
STH 60.
Potential safety improvements were identified to mitigate the crash patterns and issues noted in
the field. These improvements are:
    ·   Positively Offset NB & SB Left-turn Lanes on STH 16: Reconstruct the raised median
        so that the northbound and southbound left-turn lanes on STH 16 are positively offset
        from each other. Positively offset left-turn lanes improve the sight distance and safety for
        left-turning drivers to potentially reduce left-turn angle crashes.
        http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/publications/research/safety/09036/
    ·   Offset NB Right-turn Lane on STH 16: Reconstruct the northbound right-turn lane so
        that it is offset laterally from the through lanes and no longer obstruct the view of the
        minor road driver. Offset right-turn lanes prevent crashes that occur between vehicles
        turning left, turning right, or crossing from the minor road and through vehicles on the
        major road due to an obstructed view when a vehicle is in the major street right-turn lane.
        http://safety.fhwa.dot.gov/intersection/resources/intsafestratbro/images/ub8.jpg
    ·   Accommodate Truck Turning Radius for all Movements: Reconstruct the intersection
        as necessary to accommodate the turning radius for the design vehicle making all
        possible turns at the intersection.
    ·   Install Traffic Signals: Install traffic signals with the appropriate phasing to
        accommodate design year traffic volumes. Design signal plans and timing parameters to
        meet WisDOT Facilities Development Manual (FDM) requirements. A traffic signal
        would provide specific phasing for the major and minor street approaches and allow
        larger trucks to turn in a one-stage movement. This would reduce the delays and
        roadway blocking caused by trucks waiting for gaps in traffic on STH 16.
PART C ­ EXISTING TRAFFIC VOLUMES
A 14-hour (6:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.) weekday turning movement count was conducted at the STH
16 intersection with STH 60 in early June 2013. Based on the turning movement counts, the
weekday peak hours were identified to occur as follows:
    ·   Weekday Morning (AM) Peak Hour: 7:15-8:15 a.m.
    ·   Weekday Evening (PM) Peak Hour: 4:00-5:00 p.m.
The existing year 2013 AM and PM peak hour traffic volumes at the STH 16 intersection with
STH 60 are shown on Exhibit 4. The existing turning movement traffic count data is included in
Appendix B1.
PART D ­ EXISTING TRAFFIC CAPACITY ANALYSIS
D1. Level of Service Definitions
The study area intersections were analyzed based on the procedures set forth in the 2010
Highway Capacity Manual (HCM) using the Synchro 8.0 software. Intersection operation is
defined by "level of service". Level of Service (LOS) is a quantitative measure that refers to the
overall quality of flow at an intersection ranging from very good, represented by LOS `A', to
very poor, represented by LOS `F'.

Traffic Analysis & Design, Inc.                                                                     6
STH 16 & STH 60 Columbia County Intersection Control Evaluation                        August 22, 2013


Descriptions of the various levels of service are as follows:
    LOS A is the highest level of service that can be achieved. Under this condition, intersection
    approaches appear quite open, turning movements are easily made, and nearly all drivers find
    freedom of operation. At signalized intersections, average delays are less than 10 seconds.
    At unsignalized intersections, average delays are less than 10 seconds.
    LOS B represents stable operation. At signalized intersections, average vehicle delays are 10
    to 20 seconds. At unsignalized intersections, average delays are 10 to 15 seconds.
    LOS C still represents stable operation, but periodic backups of a few vehicles may develop
    behind turning vehicles. Most drivers begin to feel restricted, but not objectionably so. At
    signalized intersections, average vehicle delays are 20 to 35 seconds. At unsignalized
    intersections, average delays are 15 to 25 seconds.
    LOS D represents increasing traffic restrictions as the intersection approaches instability.
    Delays to approaching vehicles may be substantial during short peaks within the peak period,
    but periodic clearance of long lines occurs, thus preventing excessive backups. At signalized
    intersections, average vehicle delays are 35 to 55 seconds. At unsignalized intersections,
    average delays are 25 to 35 seconds.
    LOS E represents the capacity of the intersection. At signalized intersections, average
    vehicle delays are 55 to 80 seconds. At unsignalized intersections, average delays are 35 to
    50 seconds.
    LOS F represents jammed conditions where the intersection is over capacity and acceptable
    gaps for unsignalized intersections in the mainline traffic flow are minimal. At signalized
    intersections, average vehicle delays exceed 80 seconds. At unsignalized intersections,
    average delays exceed 50 seconds.
D2. Year 2013 Existing Traffic Operating Conditions
Table 1 shows the year 2013 existing traffic peak hour operating conditions at the STH 16
intersection with STH 60. The intersection was evaluated with the existing geometrics and the
existing two-way stop sign control.
As shown, the intersection currently operates at LOS C or better during the AM and PM peak
hours with two-way stop control on STH 60 and the Columbus Travel Center driveway. The
existing year 2013 traffic analysis worksheets for this intersection is located in Appendix C1.

Table 1. Year 2013 Existing Traffic Peak Hour LOS: Two-Way Stop
                                                    Level of Service per Movement by Approach
                            Traffic Peak    EB STH 60    WB Travel Ctr NB STH 16/60         SB STH 16
  Intersection              Control Hour   LT TH RT LT TH RT LT TH RT LT TH RT
  STH 16 & STH 60/Travel             AM    B    B    B     C    C     A    A    A     A    A    A   A
                            TWSC
  Center Driveway                    PM    B    B    B     C    C     A    A    A     A    A    A   A




Traffic Analysis & Design, Inc.                                                                         7
STH 16 & STH 60 Columbia County Intersection Control Evaluation                        August 22, 2013


               CHAPTER III ­ TRAFFIC CONTROL ALTERNATIVES
PART A ­ FORECASTED TRAFFIC VOLUMES
The existing AM and PM peak hour turning movement volumes were provided to WisDOT for
development of peak hour traffic forecasts. WisDOT used this data to prepare daily and peak hour
traffic forecasts for the construction year 2014, the interim year 2024, and the design year 2034.
The WisDOT traffic forecasts included additional traffic volumes expected to be generated by the
proposed Columbus Commerce Center in the southwest quadrant of the STH 16 intersection with
STH 60. Based on a traffic impact study prepared for this development in June 2012, the
development consists of a discount store in phase one, plus a restaurant, strip and big box retail,
offices, a medical office, a bank and a hotel at full buildout. The phase one buildout is expected to
generate about 1,890 daily trips and at full buildout, the development is expected to generate 12,160
daily trips. According to the traffic impact study, access to the development is proposed along STH
60 and 70 percent of the new trips are expected to travel to and from the south on STH 16.
The WisDOT traffic forecasts for the construction year 2014 include background traffic growth
plus new trips expected from phase one of the Columbus Commerce Center. The WisDOT traffic
forecasts for the interim year 2024 and the design year 2034 include background traffic growth
plus new trips expected from full buildout of the Columbus Commerce Center. The WisDOT
traffic forecasts are located in Appendix B2. The WisDOT peak hour traffic forecasts for the years
2014, 2024, and 2034 are shown on Exhibit 5.
PART B ­ TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL (NO BUILD)
Table 2 shows the two-way stop control (No Build) peak hour operating conditions at the STH
16 intersection with STH 60 for the construction year 2014, the interim year 2024, and the design
year 2034. The intersection was evaluated with the existing geometrics and the existing two-way
stop sign control.
As shown, the construction year 2014 traffic volumes are expected to result in LOS D or better
conditions for all traffic movements with the existing geometrics and two-way stop control at the
STH 16 intersection with STH 60. With the interim year 2024 and design year 2034 traffic
volumes, delays are expected to increase to LOS F conditions for the eastbound and westbound
left-turn/through traffic movements. The eastbound and westbound left-turn/through movements
are also expected to be over capacity and have long traffic queues during the peak hours. The
Two-way Stop Control No Build traffic analysis worksheets for this intersection are located in
Appendix C2.

Table 2. Two-Way Stop (No Build) Peak Hour Operations
                                                   Level of Service per Movement by Approach
                                  Peak     EB STH 60    WB Travel Ctr NB STH 16/60         SB STH 16
   Analysis Year                  Hour   LT TH RT LT TH RT LT TH RT LT TH RT
                                  AM     B     B    B     C    C     A    A    A     A    A    A   A
   Year 2014
                                   PM    C     C    B     D    D     A    A    A     A    A    A   A
                                  AM      F    F    B     F     F    A    B    A     A    A    A   A
   Year 2024
                                   PM     F    F    C     F     F    B    B    A     A    A    A   A
                                  AM      F    F    B     F     F    B    B    A     A    A    A   A
   Year 2034
                                   PM     F    F    C     F     F    B    B    A     A    A    A   A


Traffic Analysis & Design, Inc.                                                                        8
STH 16 & STH 60 Columbia County Intersection Control Evaluation                       August 22, 2013


PART C ­ TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL (BUILD)
Table 3 shows the two-way stop control (Build) peak hour operating conditions at the STH 16
intersection with STH 60 for the construction year 2014, the interim year 2024, and the design
year 2034. The intersection was evaluated with the existing two-way stop control plus additional
improvements to address safety and capacity issues at the intersection. These improvements
include providing positive offset northbound and southbound left-turn lanes, providing an offset
northbound right-turn lane, and lengthening the turn bays to meet WisDOT FDM requirements.
Additional turn lanes were not added on the STH 60 or Columbus West Travel Center driveway
approaches since they are not expected to improve traffic operations to acceptable levels (LOS D
or better).
As shown, the safety and other improvements listed previously are not expected to improve
traffic operations to acceptable levels. The STH 16 intersection with STH 60 is expected to
continue to operate with movements over capacity and at LOS F with the interim year 2024 and
design year 2034 traffic volumes. The Two-way Stop Control Build traffic analysis worksheets
for this intersection are located in Appendix C3.

Table 3. Two-Way Stop (Build) Peak Hour Operations
                                                   Level of Service per Movement by Approach
                                  Peak     EB STH 60    WB Travel Ctr NB STH 16/60         SB STH 16
   Analysis Year                  Hour   LT TH RT LT TH RT LT TH RT LT TH RT
                                  AM     B     B    B     C    C     A    A    A     A    A    A   A
   Year 2014
                                   PM    C     C    B     D    D     A    A    A     A    A    A   A
                                  AM      F    F    B     F     F    A    B    A     A    A    A   A
   Year 2024
                                   PM     F    F    C     F     F    B    B    A     A    A    A   A
                                  AM      F    F    B     F     F    B    B    A     A    A    A   A
   Year 2034
                                   PM     F    F    C     F     F    B    B    A     A    A    A   A

PART D ­ TRAFFIC SIGNAL CONTROL
Even with geometric and safety improvements, the existing two-way stop control at the STH 16
intersection with STH 60 is not expected to provide acceptable traffic operations through the
design year 2034. To mitigate the expected delays, a traffic signal was evaluated as a traffic
control alternative for this intersection.
D1. Traffic Signal Warrants
A traffic signal warrant study was conducted to determine if signals would be warranted with the
construction year 2014 or design year 2034 traffic volumes. The warrant study was based on
traffic volume warrants from the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD), 9th
edition. Chapter 4C of the MUTCD outlines the standards for determining the need for traffic
signals at a particular location. For a traffic signal to be installed, at least one of the following
warrants must be satisfied. The nine signal warrants are listed below:
    ·   Warrant 1, Eight-Hour Vehicular Volume
    ·   Warrant 2, Four-Hour Vehicular Volume
    ·   Warrant 3, Peak Hour
    ·   Warrant 4, Pedestrian Volume
    ·   Warrant 5, School Crossing
    ·   Warrant 6, Coordinated Signal System
Traffic Analysis & Design, Inc.                                                                     9
STH 16 & STH 60 Columbia County Intersection Control Evaluation                      August 22, 2013


    ·   Warrant 7, Crash Experience
    ·   Warrant 8, Roadway Network
    ·   Warrant 9, Intersection Near a Grade Crossing
For this study, Warrants 1, 2, 3, and 7 were evaluated. The left-turn conflict analysis, which is
defined in the WisDOT Facilities Development Manual (FDM), was also evaluated. Warrants 1,
2, 3, 7 and the left-turn conflict analysis are described below:
Warrant 1, Eight Hour Vehicular Volume states that a traffic signal may be considered if either
Condition A or Condition B volume thresholds from the MUTCD Table 4C-1 are met for at least
eight hours of an average day.
For situations where neither condition A nor condition B are met, 80 percent of both conditions
A and B can be met after adequate trials of remedial measures are taken.
Warrant 2, Four Hour Volume is satisfied if during any four hours of an average day the major
street and minor street volumes fall above the MUTCD Figure 4C-1 or 4C-2 four-hour curve.
Warrant 3, Peak Hour Volume is satisfied if during any hour of an average day the major street
and minor street fall above the MUTCD Figure 4C-3 or 4C-4 peak hour curve. Note that
Warrant 3 shall be applied only in unusual cases, such as office complexes, manufacturing
plants, or high-occupancy facilities that attract or discharge large numbers of vehicles over a
short time.
Warrant 7, Crash Experience states that a traffic signal may be considered if all of the
following conditions exist:
    A. Adequate trial of alternatives with satisfactory observance and enforcement fails to
       reduce the crash frequency; and
    B. Five (5) or more reported crashes in a 12-month period involving personal injury or
       property damage and susceptible to correction by traffic signal installation; and
    C. For at least eight hours of an average day, the vehicles per hour given on the major and
       minor streets meet or exceed 80 percent of Warrant 1, Condition A or B, or the
       pedestrian volumes are not less than 80 percent of the requirements in Warrant 4.
Left-turn Conflict Analysis is met if the product of the major street left-turn volume and
opposing through plus right-turn movements exceed 100,000 (one left-turn lane and two
opposing through lanes) or 80,000 (one left-turn lane and one opposing through lane). This
warrant is mainly used to determine the need for left-turn phasing at a signalized intersection.
For the warrant analysis, STH 60 and the Columbus West Travel Center driveway were
evaluated as the minor street approaches with one approach lane and zero percent of the right
turn volumes included. Although there currently aren't any designated, striped right-turn lanes
on these approaches, it is assumed that if a signal were installed, both an exclusive left-turn lane
plus a shared through/right-turn lane would be constructed to accommodate the traffic load.
STH 16 was evaluated as the major street with more than two approach lanes. The speed limit
on STH 16 is 55 mph; therefore, the traffic volume thresholds were evaluated at the 70 percent
level.
The warrant analysis utilized the 14-hour traffic counts collected at the intersection, annual
hourly growth to the years 2014 and 2024, plus hourly estimations of new trip traffic from phase
one (2014) and full buildout (by 2024) of the proposed Columbus Commerce Center. The hourly

Traffic Analysis & Design, Inc.                                                                    10
STH 16 & STH 60 Columbia County Intersection Control Evaluation                      August 22, 2013


estimations of new trip traffic were based on hourly traffic distributions for different land use
types as provided by WisDOT.
Based on the hourly traffic volume forecasts, the STH 16 intersection with STH 60 is expected to
meet warrants 1 and 7 by the construction year 2014. By the design year 2034, the hourly
volume forecasts are expected to meet Warrants 1, 2, 3, and 7. By the design year 2034, the left-
turn conflict analysis is also expected to be met indicating that a northbound protected/permitted
left-turn phase should be installed with traffic signals at this intersection.
The hourly traffic volumes and warrant analysis graphs and charts for the construction year 2014
and design year 2034 are included in Appendix D.
D2. Traffic Signal Operations
Table 4 shows the traffic signal control peak hour operating conditions at the STH 16
intersection with STH 60 for the construction year 2014, the interim year 2024, and the design
year 2034. For the construction year 2014 traffic condition, the intersection was evaluated with
the existing turn lane geometrics on STH 16 (but with positively offset northbound and
southbound left-turn lanes). The STH 60 and Columbus West Travel Center driveway
approaches were evaluated with exclusive left-turn lanes and shared through/right-turn lanes.
For the interim year 2024 and design year 2034 traffic conditions, the intersection was evaluated
with the geometrics above plus an exclusive eastbound right-turn lane on STH 60.
As shown, traffic signal control at the STH 16 intersection with STH 60 is expected to result in
LOS C or better traffic operations for all turning movements during the AM and PM peak hours
through the design year 2034. The Traffic Signal Control traffic analysis worksheets for this
intersection are located in Appendix C4.

Table 4. Traffic Signal Peak Hour Operations
                                                  Level of Service per Movement by Approach
                                  Peak    EB STH 60    WB Travel Ctr NB STH 16/60         SB STH 16
   Analysis Year                  Hour   LT TH RT LT TH RT LT TH RT LT TH RT
                                  AM     B    A    B     B    A     A    A    A     A    A    A   A
   Year 2014
                                   PM    B    A    B     B    A     A    A    A     A    A    A   A
                                  AM     B    B    B     B    A     B    A    A     A    B    B   B
   Year 2024
                                   PM    C    B    C     B    A     B    B    A     A    B    B   B
                                  AM     B    B    B     B    A     B    A    A     A    B    B   B
   Year 2034
                                   PM    C    B    C     B    A     B    B    A     A    B    B   B

PART E ­ ROUNDABOUT CONTROL
Table 5 shows the roundabout peak hour operating conditions at the STH 16 intersection with
STH 60 for the construction year 2014, the interim year 2024, and the design year 2034. The
intersection was evaluated with a two-lane roundabout with two-lane entries at each approach for
the construction year 2014. With the increased traffic forecasted for the interim year 2024 and
design year 2034, these geometrics are expected to result in unacceptable traffic operations for
some lane groups during the peak hours. To mitigate the additional delays, the interim year 2024
traffic volumes were evaluated with an eastbound right-turn bypass lane on STH 60 that yields to
(merges with) traffic on southbound STH 16. The design year 2034 traffic volumes were
evaluated with an eastbound right-turn bypass lane on STH 60 that does not yield to (flows into
an exclusive receiving lane) traffic on southbound STH 16.
Traffic Analysis & Design, Inc.                                                                     11
STH 16 & STH 60 Columbia County Intersection Control Evaluation                      August 22, 2013


As shown, the roundabout configurations discussed above are expected to result in LOS B or
better condition for all lane groups during the AM and PM peak hours through the design year
2034. The Roundabout traffic analysis worksheets for this intersection are located in Appendix
C5.

Table 5. Roundabout Peak Hour Operations
                                                  Level of Service per Movement by Approach
                                  Peak    EB STH 60    WB Travel Ctr NB STH 16/60         SB STH 16
   Analysis Year                  Hour   LT TH RT LT TH RT LT TH RT LT TH RT
                                  AM     A    A    A    A     A     A    A    A     A    A    A   A
   Year 2014
                                   PM    A    A    A    A     A     A    A    A     A    A    A   A
                                  AM     A    A    A    A     A     A    A    A     A    A    A   A
   Year 2024
                                   PM    A    A    A     B    A     A    A    B     B    A    B   B
                                  AM     A    A    A    A     A     A    A    A     A    A    B   A
   Year 2034
                                   PM    A    A    A     B    A     A    B    B     B    B    B   B

PART F ­ INTERSECTION CONTROL EVALUATION
A completed intersection control evaluation (ICE) worksheet is included as Appendix E. Eight
factors were used to compare the two-way stop control (No Build), two-way stop control (Build),
traffic signal control, and roundabout alternatives, per the WisDOT FDM 11-25-3. The eight
factors are:
    · Safety                                         · Practical Feasibility
    · Operational Analysis                           · Pedestrians and Bicycles
    · Right-of-Way Impacts                           · OSOW Freight Network
    · Costs                                          · Environmental Impacts
The ICE worksheet is intended to help assist WisDOT in the evaluation of the traffic control
alternatives for the study intersection.
F1. Safety
Although the crash rate for this intersection is lower than those with similar characteristics, the
intersection had one fatality and nearly 50 percent of all crashes resulted in injuries. Most of the
crashes were angle crashes, and most occurred by vehicles traveling to or from the Columbus
West Travel Center. About 42 percent of all vehicles involved in the crash involved trucks.
Some of the crashes were caused by trucks blocking the visibility of other drivers at the
intersection. This situation was confirmed by field observation made during the traffic counts.
To mitigate some of the safety issues at the existing two-way stop controlled intersection, it is
recommended to positively offset the northbound and southbound left-turn lanes on STH 16.
The design of the reconstructed medians on STH 16 should accommodate design vehicle turning
radii. It is also recommended to offset the northbound right-turn lane to improve visibility for
vehicles exiting the Columbus West Travel Center driveway.
With traffic signal control, it is recommended to positively offset the northbound and southbound
left-turn lanes on STH 16, install signal heads on monotube signal poles (one signal head for
each lane), provide clearance intervals and other timing parameters per current industry standard,
and include other signal design features to promote safety at the intersection.


Traffic Analysis & Design, Inc.                                                                   12
STH 16 & STH 60 Columbia County Intersection Control Evaluation                       August 22, 2013


If properly designed, roundabout control is expected to provide a safe alternative to two-way
stop sign control at the intersection. Roundabout control requires all traffic to yield before
entering the intersection and is typically designed so that all traffic must travel at slow speeds
throughout the roundabout.
F2. Operational Analysis
The existing two-way stop control with and without safety improvements is not expected to
provide acceptable traffic operations at the STH 16 intersection with STH 60 through the design
year. The phase one and full buildout of the Columbus Commerce Center development is
expected to generate high traffic volumes primarily between the development and the City of
Columbus. With the development traffic volumes, delays and traffic queues are expected to be
very high both eastbound on STH 60 and westbound from the travel center driveway.
With traffic signal control and lane improvements on eastbound STH 60, the STH 16 intersection
with STH 60 is expected to operate acceptably for all traffic movements through the design year.
To accommodate the additional traffic volumes expected from the Columbus Commerce Center,
the intersection would require additional turn lanes eastbound on STH 60, turn lane extensions,
and a northbound protected/permitted left-turn phase.
With roundabout control, a two-lane roundabout with a bypass lane from eastbound STH 60 to
southbound STH 16 is expected to operate acceptably for all traffic movements through the
design year. With the design year traffic volumes, however, the projected high turns within the
right-turn bypass lanes would require the bypass to connect with southbound STH 16 in a non-
yielding movement requiring an additional southbound lane on STH 16 to accept the bypass
lane.
The recommended geometrics for each traffic control alternative are shown schematically on
Exhibits 6A and 6B and as conceptual designs in Appendix F. Appendix F also includes turning
radii for both the design vehicle (WB-65) and a typical OSOW vehicle that may travel through
the intersection (wind blade).
F3. Construction Cost
Conceptual construction costs were estimated by Batterman for the TWSC-Build, traffic signal,
and roundabout alternatives. Construction costs are based on 2013 dollars and are for conceptual
use only since they are not based on detailed design drawings. The cost estimates only include
connecting to existing asphalt pavement where required, and do not consider replacing existing
deteriorated pavement.
The following are the conceptual cost estimates for the traffic control alternative options:
    ·   Existing Two-Way Stop Control (TWSC) with Improvements (Build): $250,000-$300,000
    ·   Traffic Signal Control: $500,000-$550,000
    ·   Roundabout Control: $1,800,000-$2,000,000
F4. Right-of-Way
According to Batterman, the traffic signal alternative is expected to require approximately 0.15
acres of right-of-way in order to accommodate the conceptual design. Neither existing TWSC
Build alternative nor the roundabout alternative are expected to require additional right-of-way.
F5. Practical Feasibility
The two-way stop control with safety improvements is the lowest cost alternative. Two-way
stop control is not practical for this intersection since it is not expected to accommodate the

Traffic Analysis & Design, Inc.                                                                      12
STH 16 & STH 60 Columbia County Intersection Control Evaluation                     August 22, 2013


projected increase in traffic volumes due to the buildout of the Columbus Commerce Center near
the intersection.
Traffic signal control is a practical improvement that results in increased safety and acceptable
traffic operations with mid-range costs impacts. Roundabout control provides acceptable traffic
operations, but at a much higher cost, greater design impacts, and greater issues with truck turns
throughout the roundabout.
F6. Operations and Maintenance Costs
The operations and maintenance costs were not calculated but are higher with traffic signal
control (due to signal controllers, signal heads, wiring, detection, and signal retiming) and
roundabout control (median landscaping and maintenance).
F7. Environment
No significant environmental impacts are anticipated at this time for any of the traffic control
alternatives.
F8. Pedestrians and Bicycles
Pedestrian activity at the intersection is currently relatively low, but could increase as
development occurs for the Columbus Commerce Center in the southwest corner of the
intersection. It is recommended that pedestrian sidewalks, crosswalks, refuge islands, and traffic
control be installed as appropriate for each traffic control alternative type.
For the STH 16 intersection with STH 60, pedestrian crossings with traffic signal control and
pedestrian signal indications would provide safer crossing than either roundabout control or the
existing two-way stop control. Roundabout control is expected to provide safer crossing than the
existing two-way stop control since the crossing distances would be shorter.
F9. Conclusions
Both traffic signal control and roundabout control are expected to improve safety and reduce
traffic crashes, accommodate OSOW vehicles through careful design, and accommodate design
year 2034 traffic volumes. Therefore, it is recommended that WisDOT further evaluate these
alternatives in the second phase of the ICE process.




Traffic Analysis & Design, Inc.                                                                    13
                                              Study Intersection
                                              STH 60/STH 16 (and Travel Center Driveway)




                                         BP




                                    BP




        Source: Google Earth




                                                                                               N


                           EXHIBIT 1                                                       NOT TO SCALE

EXHIBIT DATE: 08-22-13
                           PROJECT LOCATION MAP
                                                                d
                                                             Roa
                                                                                             ive




                                                         bus
                                                                                         e Dr
                                                                                        t
                                                                                    iva




                                                      lum
                                                                                 Pr




                                                    Co
                                  16




                                                   r-
                                                 ve
                                              Ri
                                              ll
                                            Fa


                                                                                                       Columbus West Travel Center
                                                                                                      BP Gas Station & Arby's Restaurant




                                               SPEED
                                                LIMIT

                                               55




                                                                                                 d)
                                                                                            ar
                                                                                              ke   5'
                                  House &                                              Un
                                                                                          m      ~2
                                                                                      (
                                  Barns
                                                                     22
                                                                         5'
                                                           22
                                                             5'




                                                                                                         235
                                                                                                          '
                                                                                            210




                                                                                                                Dr
                                                                                                 '




                                                                                                                  ive
                                                                                                                   to




                                                                       5'
                                                                                                                        BP




                                                                    ~2lare)
                                                                                                                          /A




                                                                    (F
                                                                                                                          rb




                                                                              ~45-foot wide median
                                                                                                                             y 's




                                                                              (2-vehicle auto storage)
                                                                                                                                  S
                                                                                                                                 ign




                         SPEED
                          LIMIT

                         55

                                                                                                                         16

       60                                                                              Shopko                                  60




                          LEGEND
                                STOP SIGN
                                EXISTING LANE CONFIGURATION
                            XX' EXISTING TURN BAY LENGTH (IN FEET)                                                                             N
                                DIVIDED ROADWAY SECTION

                           EXHIBIT 2                                                                                                       NOT TO SCALE

EXHIBIT DATE: 08-22-13
                           EXISTING GEOMETRICS
Southbound STH 16




Northbound STH 60/16




                         EXHIBIT 3A
EXHIBIT DATE: 08-22-13
                         INTERSECTION PHOTOGRAPHS: NORTHBOUND & SOUTHBOUND
Westbound Travel Center Driveway




Eastbound STH 60




                         EXHIBIT 3B
EXHIBIT DATE: 08-22-13
                         INTERSECTION PHOTOGRAPHS: EASTBOUND & WESTBOUND
                                                           d
                                                        Roa
                                                                                   ive




                                                    bus
                         9,800                                                 e Dr
                                                                              t
                                                                          iva




                                                 lum
                                                                       Pr




                                               Co
                             16




                                               r-
                                             ve
                                          Ri
                                          ll
                                        Fa


                                                                                    Columbus West Travel Center
                                                                                   BP Gas Station & Arby's Restaurant




                                                                                   )
                                                                               (25
                                                                             20 (5) )
                             House &                                           15 (65
                             Barns                                               45
                                                     (39 (20) 2
                                                      (25 400
                                                         0)
                                                         )2
                                                            0
                                                                0




                                                                              55 5 (39
                                                                                28 (95)
                                                                                 (65 5)
                                                                                  65


                                                                                    )


                                                                                             Dr
                                                                                               ive




                                                                 5
                                                                                                to




                                                              )1
                                                           (20 5) 5
                                                                                                     BP




                                                               1
                                                              ( 50
                                                                                                       /A




                                                                  5)
                                                                                                       rb




                                                              (11
                                                                                                          y 's
                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                              ign




                 1,600
                                                                                                      16

       60                                                                                                   60


                                                                                                                   14,500




                         LEGEND
                                 STOP SIGN
                            XX   AM PEAK HOUR (7:15-8:15 AM) TRAFFIC VOLUMES
                           (XX) PM PEAK HOUR (4:00-5:00 PM) TRAFFIC VOLUMES
                           N (N) AM (PM) NEGLIGIBLE TRAFFIC VOLUMES
                                                                                                                                N
                          X,XXX 2011 ANNUAL AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC

                         EXHIBIT 4                                                                                          NOT TO SCALE

EXHIBIT DATE: 08-22-13
                         EXISTING YEAR 2013 TRAFFIC VOLUMES
                                                            16                          )
                                                                                    (30             ay
                                                                                20 (5) )          w
                                                             10,600                15 (65 rive
                                                                                      45        D
                                                                                             er
                                                                                       e  nt




                                                      (39 (35) 2
                                                       (25 400
                                                                                   lC




                                                          5)
                                                                                ve




                                                          )2
                                                                            a




                                                             0
                                                                         Tr
       2014 Traffic Volumes




                                                                 5




                                                                                  55 5 (40 )
                                                                                    28 (160
    Includes Phase 1 of the Columbus




                                                                                     (65 0)
                                                                                      85


                                                                                        )
    Commerce Center (CCC) traffic
    projections.                                                 0
                                                  1,800       )2
                                                           (40 5) 5
                                                              (1 60                    16
                                             60                   5)
                                                              (17                           60

                                                                                            16,400




                                                            16                         )
                                                                                    (30 )          ay
                                                                                20 (10 )         w
                                                             14,100                15 (75 rive
                                                                                      50       D
                                                                                            er
                                                                                       e nt
                                                     (44 0) 11
                                                      (25 455




                                                                                   lC
                                                        (13
                                                         0)




                                                                                ve
                                                          )2




                                                                            a
                                                             0




       2024 Traffic Volumes                                              Tr
                                                               0




    Includes Full Buildout of the
                                                                                  60 0 (44 0)
                                                                                    32 5 (48
                                                                                     (70 5)
    Columbus Commerce Center (CCC)
                                                                                      36


                                                                                        )

    traffic projections.
                                                  2,400         65
                                                             0) 5
                                                          (16 (15) 5
                                                                    21                 16
                                             60                  0)
                                                             (57                            60

                                                                                            26,300



                                                            16                      )
                                                                                 (30 )         ay
                                                                              20 (10 )       w
                                                             15,300             15 (80 rive
                                                                                   55
                                                                                          rD
                                                                                      nte
                                                                                    e
                                                     (49 0) 11
                                                      (30 510




                                                                                lC
                                                        (13
                                                         5)




                                                                             ve
                                                          )2




                                                                            a
                                                            0




                                                                         Tr
       2034 Traffic Volumes
                                                               0




                                                                                  65 5 (50 5)
                                                                                    36 5 (49




    Includes Full Buildout of the
                                                                                     (80 0)
                                                                                      37


                                                                                        )




    Columbus Commerce Center (CCC)
    traffic projections.
                                                  2,600         65
                                                             0) 5
                                                          (16 (15) 5
                                                                    22                 16
                                             60                  0)
                                                             (59                            60

                                                                                            28,400


                         LEGEND
                                 STOP SIGN
                            XX   AM PEAK HOUR (7:15-8:15 AM) TRAFFIC VOLUMES
                           (XX) PM PEAK HOUR (4:00-5:00 PM) TRAFFIC VOLUMES
                           N (N) AM (PM) NEGLIGIBLE TRAFFIC VOLUMES
                                                                                                             N
                          X,XXX ANNUAL AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC

                          EXHIBIT 5                                                                      NOT TO SCALE

EXHIBIT DATE: 08-22-13
                          FUTURE TRAFFIC VOLUMES
                                                          16
                                                                                      d)                    ay
                                                                                ar
                                                                                  ke      5'
                                                                             m       ~2                ew
                                                                         (Un                        riv
           Existing TWSC                                                                    te
                                                                                                 r D

             (No Build)                                                            C      en
                                                                                el




                                                               22
                                                                              av




                                                                    5'
                                                                         Tr




                                                     22
                                                      5'




                                                                                               23
                                                                                                 5'
                                                                                 21
                                                                                   0'
                                                               5'
                                                            ~2lare)
                                                               (F                           16
                                             60
                                                                                                 60




                                                          16                                                        ay
                                                                                                               ew
                                                                                                           riv
                                                                                       0'                 D
                                                                                     10             e   r
           Existing TWSC                                                                         nt
                                                                                            l Ce
               (Build)                                                             a      ve
                                                                                 Tr
                                                               37
                                                                    5'




      Design Year 2034 Improvements
                                                     35
                                                      0'




 Turn bay length recommendations are
                                                                                               35




                                                                                                                         Safety Improvements include
                                                                                                 0'




 based on 95th percentile queues + an                                                                                    positively off-setting the NB & SB left-
                                                                                 42




 additional 350 feet for non-signalized                                                                                  turn lanes on STH 16 and offsetting
                                                                                     5'




                                                                                                                         the NB right-turn lane.
 high-speed rural roadways per WisDOT
 guidelines (WisDOT FDM 11-25-1).
                                                                    0'
                                                            45                              16
                                             60
                                                                                                 60




                          LEGEND
                                STOP SIGN
                                TURN LANE CONFIGURATION
                            XX' TURN BAY LENGTH (IN FEET)                                                                                                               N
                                DIVIDED ROADWAY SECTION

                          EXHIBIT 6A                                                                                                                                NOT TO SCALE

EXHIBIT DATE: 08-22-13
                          FEASIBLE TRAFFIC CONTROL ALTERNATIVE OPTIONS
                                                                                                                Recommended Phasing




                                                                                                                Actuated-Uncoordinated


                                                           16
                                                                                                                    ay
                                                                                                               ew
                                                                                                            riv
            Traffic Signal                                                              10
                                                                                          0'
                                                                                                  te
                                                                                                         r D

             Alternative                                                                    C   en
                                                                                         el




                                                                22
                                                                                       av




                                                                  5'
                                                                                  Tr




                                                      27
      Design Year 2034 Improvements




                                                       5'
 Turn bay length recommendations are




                                                                                                         235
 based on 95th percentile queues (d3) +




                                                                                                            '
                                                                                             550
 an additional 225 feet (minimum) for
                                                                       0'




                                                                                                '
 deceleration (d4) per WisDOT guidelines                             35
 for a 55-mph roadway (WisDOT FDM 11-                                       0'
 25-2.3).                                                                 45                                                   Positively off-set the NB & SB left-
                                                                                                                               turn lanes on STH 16 for increased
                                                                                                    16                         safety.
                                              60
 Turn lane storage requirements within 50                                                                60
 feet of existing storage lengths were not
 changed.
                                                       An EB right-turn overlap phase could be added to reduce
                                                       queuing, delays, and recommended turn bay lengths for
                                                       the right-turn movement. This improvement will impact
                                                       pedestrian operations, and therefore should be considered
                                                       after more careful consideration of future pedestrian
                                                       activity from the CCC development.




                                                           16                                                             ay
                                                                                                                     ew
                                                                                                                Driv
                                                                                                          e   r
             Roundabout                                                                        re      nt
                                                                                         Fla      l Ce
              Alternative                                                                   a   ve
                                                                                          Tr
      Design Year 2034 Improvements




                                                             re
                                                        Fla
                                                                  ss                                16
                                              60              pa
                                                           By
                                                                                                         60


                                                                            For LOS C or better for all
                                                                            movements, the EB right-turn bypass
                                                                            lane would need to be non-yielding
                                                                            requiring an exclusive southbound
                                                                            lane on STH 16/60 for these turns.




                           LEGEND
                                 STOP SIGN                                                   TRAFFIC SIGNAL
                                 TURN LANE CONFIGURATION                                     ROUNDABOUT
                             XX' TURN BAY LENGTH (IN FEET)                                                                                                                N
                                 DIVIDED ROADWAY SECTION

                            EXHIBIT 6B                                                                                                                                NOT TO SCALE

EXHIBIT DATE: 08-22-13
                            FEASIBLE TRAFFIC CONTROL ALTERNATIVE OPTIONS
                              APPENDIX A


                        SAFETY ANALYSIS




Traffic Analysis & Design, Inc.            APPENDIX
                                                   Q                               R
                                       08/23/11, 9:50                  10/30/11, 9:50                                                             L
                                       DAY, WET, RAIN                  LIGHTED, DRY, CLEAR                                            12/13/10, 12:59
                                       SEVERITY = PROP DAMAGE          SEVERITY = C                                                   LIGHTED, WET, CLOUDY
                                       (Sign, Attempting right turn,                                                                  SEVERITY = PROP DAMAGE
                                       Lost control on wet road) SP                                                                   (Semi-trailer turning right)


                                                16
                                                                                                                                                                               G
                                                                                                                                                                      07/26/09, 11:38
             H                                  N                                                                                                                     DAY, DRY, CLEAR
02/05/10, 14:53                    05/20/11, 15:30                                                                                                                    SEVERITY = A
                                                                                             2         F
DAY, DRY, CLOUDY                   DAY, DRY, CLEAR
SEVERITY = A                       SEVERITY = K
(View Obstructed by WB             (View Obstructed by WB                                                                                                                       D
Semi turning left onto STH 60 )    Semi turning left onto STH 60,                 2                                                                                 05/22/08, 12:59
                                   Motorcycle)                                                                                                                      DAY, DRY, CLEAR
                                                                                                                                                                    SEVERITY = PROP DAMAGE
                                                                                                                                                                    (Partial Report)
                                                                                                                                                                                P
                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                                                                    08/23/11, 21:15
                                                                                                                                                                    LIGHTED, DRY, CLEAR
                                                                                      2                                                                             SEVERITY = B
                                                                                                                                                                    (Semi-trailer)
                                                                                                                                                                                S
                                                                                                                                                                   02/11/12, 14:10
                                                                                                                                                                   DAY, DRY, CLEAR
                                                                                        F                                                                          SEVERITY = PROP DAMAGE
                                                                            01/13/09, 16:23
                                                                            DAY, SNOW, CLEAR
                                                                            SEVERITY = B
                          E
                                                                            (View Obstructed by
              12/27/08, 9:32                                                                                                                               M
                                                                            Right-turning vehicle)
              DAY, WET, FOG                                                                                                                   01/18/11, 16:11
              SEVERITY = PROP DAMAGE                                                    J                                       16            DAY, DRY, CLOUDY
                                                                            05/31/10, 15:16                                                   SEVERITY = PROP DAMAGE
         60                                                                 DAY, DRY, CLEAR                                          60       (Semi making wide right turn)
                                                                            SEVERITY = B
                                                                            (Vehicle pulling mobile
                                                                            home turning left)




                                                                                   LEGEND                                   #    = CRASH FREQUENCY (if > 1)                 CRASH SEVERITY
                                       Traffic Signal                                                                                                                       DEFINITIONS
                                                                                                                                     "REFERENCE"
        Moving Vehicle         S   Y   Stop/Yield Sign                  Angle (Right Angle)                   Head-On                ALCOHOL/DRUG INVOLVEMENT AL/DG
                                                                                                                                                                            K = Fatal Crash
                                                                                                                                                                            A = Incapacitating
        Backing Vehicle            T   Tree                             Angle (Left Turn)                     Rear-End                DATE OF CRASH, MILITARY TIME              Injury Crash
                                                                                                                                      LIGHT, ROAD, WEATHER CONDITIONS       B = Non-Incapacitating
        Pedestrian                 U   Utility Pole                     Angle (Right Turn)                    Out of Control          SEVERITY - SEE SEVERITY DEFINITIONS       Injury Crash
                                                                                                                                      (NOTES)
        Bicyclist                  F   Fixed Object                     Sideswipe-Same                        Overtake                                                      C = Possible
                                                                                                                                                                                Injury Crash
        Parked Vehicle             N   Non-Fixed Object                 Sideswipe-Opposite                    Overturn                                YEAR                  PROP DAMAGE =
                                                                                                                                       2008 BLUE   2010 GREEN 2012 BROWN        Property Damage
NOTE: DEER CRASHES                                           SPOT LOCATION WITH               SEGMENT WITH AT LEAST ONE FLAG           2009 GRAY   2011 PURPLE
                         185 000   = RP LOCATION           =                                =                                                                                   Only Crash
      NOT INCLUDED                                           CRASH RATE FLAG                  (CR, INJ/FAT, ROR, INT, OR IMP)




                                                                                                                                                                                          N


                                       EXHIBIT A.1                                                                                                                                    NOT TO SCALE

EXHIBIT DATE: 08-08-13
                                       CRASH HISTORY (2008-2012) AT STH 16 & STH 60
                                                                                                  GENERAL INFORMATION
                                              INTERSECTION:                     STH 16-STH 60                                                                                            DURATION
                                               MUNICIPALITY:                    Columbus                                 CRASHES FROM: 1/1/2008                                          5 YEARS
                                                   COUNTY:                      Columbia                                           TO: 12/31/2012                                        0 MONTHS
                                                     STATE:                     WI
                                            TADI PROJECT ID:                    1357-4                      PREPARED BY: ACP                                         DATE: 6/9/2013

                                                                                   INTERSECTION CHARACTERISTICS
                                                TRAFFIC CONTROL: MINOR STOP CONTROLLED                                                                                POSTED SPEED (MAJOR): 45
                                     INTERSECTION AADT: Year (2008) 10,900                                                                                           DEER CRASHES INCLUDED: NO
                                                NUMBER OF LEGS: 3                                                                                                               AREA TYPE: RURAL

                                                                                                     CRASH STATISTICS
                         CRASH FREQUENCY & SEVERITY                                                                                                                        ROAD CONDITIONS                    PERCENT
                         YEAR         PD     TYPE C                                 TYPE B             TYPE A              FATAL             TOTAL                         DRY             9                    69.2%
                         2008          2        0                                     0                  0                   0                 2                           WET             3                    23.1%
                         2009          0        0                                     1                  1                   0                 2                           SNOW            1                     7.7%
                         2010          1        0                                     1                  1                   0                 3                           ICE             0                     0.0%
                         2011          2        1                                     1                  0                   1                 5                           MUD             0                     0.0%
                         2012          1        0                                     0                  0                   0                 1                           OTHER/UNK       0                     0.0%
                         2013                                                                                                                                              TOTAL          13                   100.0%
                         2014
                         TOTAL        6         1                                      3                 2                    1               13                           CRASH TYPE                         PERCENT
                         PERCENT    46.2%     7.7%                                   23.1%             15.4%                7.7%            100.0%                         ANGLE                    8           61.5%
                         YEAR AVG.   1.2       0.2                                    0.6               0.4                  0.2              2.6                          REAR-END                 0            0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                           HEAD-ON                  1            7.7%
                         CRASH RATES                            per MEV                           COMPARISON STATISTIC                                                     SS-SAME                  2           15.4%
                         TOTAL                                    0.65                              1.01 Crashes per MEV                                                   SS-OPPOSITE              0            0.0%
                         FATAL                                    0.05          The comparison rate shown above is the average crash rate                                  PEDESTRIAN               0            0.0%
                                                                                from June 2005 Intersection Crash Summary for Wisconsin
                         INJURY                                   0.35          (Knapp & Campbell) for similar intersections (urban/rural, traffic                         BICYCLE                  0            0.0%
                           TYPE A                                 0.10          control, and volume). This rate should not be considered a                                 FIXED                    2           15.4%
                                                                                statewide average representative of all intersections in
                           TYPE B                                 0.15          Wisconsin. Only intersections with (3 or more crashes in one
                                                                                                                                                                           NOT FIXED                0            0.0%
                           TYPE C                                 0.05          year - rural areas, and 5 or more crashes in one year - urban                              DEER                     0            0.0%
                                                                                                                                                                           OVERTURN                 0            0.0%
                         LIGHT CONDITIONS                      PERCENT                             VEHICLE TYPES                           PERCENT                         OTHR/UNKN                0            0.0%
                         DAY           10                        76.9%                             CAR           13                          54.2%                         TOTAL                   13          100.0%
                         DARK           3                        23.1%                             TRUCK         10                          41.7%
                         TOTAL         13                       100.0%                             OTHER/UNK      1                           4.2%
                         Note: Dawn, dusk, or street lighted conditions included in dark total.
                                                                                                   TOTAL         24                         100.0%
                                                                                                   Note: Statistics based on first and second vehicles in crashes.
                         DAY AND TIME
                                                              EARLY                   AM                                    PM              LATE
                                                             MORNING                PEAK            MIDDAY                PEAK EVENING EVENING
                                                              2:00 AM               6:00 AM         10:00 AM              2:00 PM 6:00 PM 10:00 PM
                                                                 TO                    TO              TO                    TO      TO       TO
                         DAY OF WEEK                          5:59 AM               9:59 AM          1:59 PM              5:59 PM 9:59 PM  1:59 AM UNKNOWN                                      TOTAL
                         MONDAY                                   0                     1               0                     1       0        0      0                                            2
                         TUESDAY                                  0                     1               0                     2       0        0      0                                            3
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Wee
                         WEDNESDAY                                0                     0               0                     0       1        0      0                                            1              kday
                         THURSDAY                                 0                     0               1                     0       0        0      0                                            1
                         FRIDAY                                   0                     0               0                     2       0        0      0                                            2
                         SATURDAY                                 0                     1               0                     1       0        0      0                                            2          Wee
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ke    nd
                         SUNDAY                                   0                     1               1                     0       0        0      0                                            2
                         TOTAL                                   0                     4                2                    6       1        0       0                                           13

                         DRIVER AGES                           PERCENT                             VEHICLE DAMAGE                          PERCENT                         BY SEASON                          PERCENT
                         <25                        9            37.5%                             OTHER/UNK       1                          4.2%                         SPRING                    3          23.1%
                         25-34                      3            12.5%                             NONE            3                         12.5%                         SUMMER                    3          23.1%
                         35-44                      2             8.3%                             VERY MINOR      2                          8.3%                         FALL                      1           7.7%
                         45-54                      6            25.0%                             MINOR           1                          4.2%                         WINTER                    6          46.2%
                         55-64                      3            12.5%                             MODERATE        4                         16.7%                         TOTAL                    13         100.0%
                                                                                                                                                                           Note: Wint=Dec-Feb, Spr=Mar-May, Sum=June-Aug, Fall=Sept-Nov
                         65-74                      1             4.2%                             SEVERE         11                         45.8%
                         75-84                      0             0.0%                             VERY SEVERE     2                          8.3%                         PERCENT OF CRASHES
                         85+                        0             0.0%                             TOTAL          24                        100.0%                           ALCOHOL RELATED                  7.7%
                                                                                                   Note: Statistics based on first and second vehicles in crashes.
                         UNKNOWN                    0             0.0%                                                                                                       SPEED RELATED                    7.7%
                         TOTAL                     24           100.0%                             VEHICLES INVOLVED                       PERCENT
                         Note: Statistics based on first and second vehicles in crashes.                                                    15.4%
                                                                                                   SINGLE VEHICLE
                                                                                                   TWO VEHICLES                             84.6%
                                                                                                   3 OR MORE VEHICLES                        0.0%




                                   EXHIBIT A.2
EXHIBIT DATE: 08-08-13
                                   CRASH STATISTICS (2008-2012) AT STH 16 & STH 60
                             APPENDIX B1


                  TRAFFIC VOLUME DATA

              EXISTING TRAFFIC COUNTS




Traffic Analysis & Design, Inc.            APPENDIX
                                           Traffic Analysis & Design, Inc.
                                                           1-800-605-3091
                                                          www.TADI-us.com

Columbus                                                                                 File Name        : STH 16, STH 60, AM
Weekday AM                                                                               Site Code        : 00000000
#4756                                                                                    Start Date       : 6/4/2013
AS.                                                                                      Page No          :1
                                                Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1 - Bank 2
                        STH 16                     BP/Arby's                      STH 16/60                     STH 60
                      From North                   From East                     From South                   From West
Start Time     Left   Thru Right    Peds    Left Thru Right Peds           Left Thru Right      Peds   Left   Thru Right    Peds Int. Total
      Factor   1.0     1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0     1.0     1.0    1.0      1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0   1.0     1.0    1.0    1.0
   06:00 AM      3      48      3      0      9       3       3      0       10     40     12      0     2       2     10      0      145
   06:15 AM      5      88      1      0     10       2       4      0       21     34     12      0     1       1      9      0      188
   06:30 AM      5      78      1      0     15       2      10      0       10     39     21      0     0       2      8      0      191
   06:45 AM      3      88      3      0     14       0       6      0       14     42     18      0     2       0     11      0      201
       Total    16     302      8      0     48       7      23      0       55   155      63      0     5       5     38      0      725

   07:00 AM      5     76      1      0      10      3       2       0     15     58       9      0      0       0    19       0       198
   07:15 AM      7     98      4      0      11      9       7       0     16     43      19      0      6       1    12       0       233
   07:30 AM      3     90      9      0      13      1       4       0     18     92      10      0      2       2    13       0       257
   07:45 AM      4     99      7      0       8      3       7       0     17     91      12      0      1       1    15       0       265
       Total    19    363     21      0      42     16      20       0     66    284      50      0      9       4    59       0       953

   08:00 AM      5    114      1      0      12      0       0       0     15     60      13      0      5       1    11       0       237
   08:15 AM      2     66      3      0      13      1       2       0      5     62       9      0      1       0    14       0       178
   08:30 AM      3     41      4      0       8      2       5       0     10     53      14      1      3       3    11       0       158
   08:45 AM      0     52      5      0      10      1       6       0     15     45      11      0      1       1     8       0       155
       Total    10    273     13      0      43      4      13       0     45    220      47      1     10       5    44       0       728

   09:00 AM      1     56      2      0      16      0       1       0     16     41       7      0      2       1     7       0       150
   09:15 AM      5     77      6      0      14      2       0       0     13     44      10      0      4       0    14       0       189
   09:30 AM      2     50      1      0      12      0       1       0     14     44      10      0      1       1    20       0       156
   09:45 AM      4     64      1      0      10      0       6       0     11     37      16      0     12       5    30       0       196
       Total    12    247     10      0      52      2       8       0     54    166      43      0     19       7    71       0       691

   10:00 AM      6     59      5      0      14      3       7       0      9     50       8      1      2      3     12       0       179
   10:15 AM      7     57     10      0      14      1       4       0     20     54      17      0      5      2     15       0       206
   10:30 AM      2     63      2      0      13      1       4       0     14     51      15      0      3      2     20       0       190
   10:45 AM      7     58      6      0      18      2       6       0     18     47      11      0      3      4     22       0       202
       Total    22    237     23      0      59      7      21       0     61    202      51      1     13     11     69       0       777

 Grand Total     79   1422     75     0      244     36     85       0    281   1027     254       2     56     32    281      0     3874
   Apprch %       5   90.2    4.8     0     66.8    9.9   23.3       0     18   65.7    16.2     0.1   15.2    8.7   76.2      0
    Total %       2   36.7    1.9     0      6.3    0.9    2.2       0    7.3   26.5     6.6     0.1    1.4    0.8    7.3      0
   Unshifted     58   1264     69     0      146     28     61       0    222    897     177       0     45     25    208      0     3200
 % Unshifted   73.4   88.9     92     0     59.8   77.8   71.8       0     79   87.3    69.7       0   80.4   78.1     74      0     82.6
     Bank 1       3     47      4     0       13      5      5       0     14     43      18       0      4      1     14      0      171
   % Bank 1     3.8    3.3    5.3     0      5.3   13.9    5.9       0      5    4.2     7.1       0    7.1    3.1      5      0      4.4
     Bank 2      18    111      2     0       85      3     19       0     45     87      59       2      7      6     59      0      503
   % Bank 2    22.8    7.8    2.7     0     34.8    8.3   22.4       0     16    8.5    23.2     100   12.5   18.8     21      0       13
                                           Traffic Analysis & Design, Inc.
                                                           1-800-605-3091
                                                          www.TADI-us.com

Columbus                                                                                File Name       : STH 16, STH 60, AM
Weekday AM                                                                              Site Code       : 00000000
#4756                                                                                   Start Date      : 6/4/2013
AS.                                                                                     Page No         :1
                                                     Groups Printed- Bank 1 - Bank 2
                        STH 16                      BP/Arby's                   STH 16/60                     STH 60
                      From North                   From East                    From South                  From West
Start Time     Left   Thru Right    Peds    Left   Thru Right Peds       Left Thru Right      Peds   Left   Thru Right    Peds Int. Total
      Factor   1.0     1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0     1.0    1.0    1.0     1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0   1.0     1.0    1.0    1.0
   06:00 AM      1       3      0      0      2       1       1      0      2      2      3      0     1       1      7      0       24
   06:15 AM      2       7      0      0      4       0       2      0      5      2      3      0     0       0      2      0       27
   06:30 AM      1       6      0      0      6       0       2      0      4      4      6      0     0       1      2      0       32
   06:45 AM      0       5      0      0      5       0       2      0      4      6      4      0     0       0      0      0       26
       Total     4      21      0      0     17       1       7      0     15     14     16      0     1       2     11      0      109

   07:00 AM      3      6      0      0       5       1      1      0      2     10      3      0      0       0     7       0        38
   07:15 AM      3      7      0      0       5       4      1      0      1      8      1      0      0       0     2       0        32
   07:30 AM      0      6      2      0       3       0      1      0      2      5      3      0      0       0     4       0        26
   07:45 AM      1      9      0      0       3       1      2      0      3      4      3      0      1       0     4       0        31
       Total     7     28      2      0      16       6      5      0      8     27     10      0      1       0    17       0       127

   08:00 AM      0     11      0      0       3       0      0      0      5      6      7      0      1       1     3       0        37
   08:15 AM      1     10      1      0       7       0      1      0      1      8      3      0      0       0     2       0        34
   08:30 AM      0      7      0      0       4       0      1      0      0     11      7      1      1       2     2       0        36
   08:45 AM      0     11      0      0       5       0      2      0      3      6      3      0      0       0     0       0        30
       Total     1     39      1      0      19       0      4      0      9     31     20      1      2       3     7       0       137

   09:00 AM      0      5      0      0       9       0      0      0      3      8      3      0      0       0     4       0        32
   09:15 AM      1     11      2      0       9       0      0      0      4      6      4      0      1       0     2       0        40
   09:30 AM      0      7      0      0       4       0      0      0      1      7      2      0      0       0     4       0        25
   09:45 AM      2      8      0      0       3       0      0      0      3      7      4      0      1       0    10       0        38
       Total     3     31      2      0      25       0      0      0     11     28     13      0      2       0    20       0       135

   10:00 AM      2      9      0      0       4       0      3      0      4      7      3      1      1       1     2       0        37
   10:15 AM      2     10      1      0       3       0      2      0      2      9      8      0      1       0     2       0        40
   10:30 AM      1     14      0      0       6       0      1      0      4      6      6      0      1       1     7       0        47
   10:45 AM      1      6      0      0       8       1      2      0      6      8      1      0      2       0     7       0        42
       Total     6     39      1      0      21       1      8      0     16     30     18      1      5       2    18       0       166

 Grand Total     21    158      6     0       98      8     24      0     59    130     77       2     11      7     73      0       674
   Apprch %    11.4   85.4    3.2     0     75.4    6.2   18.5      0     22   48.5   28.7     0.7   12.1    7.7   80.2      0
    Total %     3.1   23.4    0.9     0     14.5    1.2    3.6      0    8.8   19.3   11.4     0.3    1.6      1   10.8      0
     Bank 1       3     47      4     0       13      5      5      0     14     43     18       0      4      1     14      0       171
   % Bank 1    14.3   29.7   66.7     0     13.3   62.5   20.8      0   23.7   33.1   23.4       0   36.4   14.3   19.2      0      25.4
     Bank 2      18    111      2     0       85      3     19      0     45     87     59       2      7      6     59      0       503
   % Bank 2    85.7   70.3   33.3     0     86.7   37.5   79.2      0   76.3   66.9   76.6     100   63.6   85.7   80.8      0      74.6
                                           Traffic Analysis & Design, Inc.
                                                           1-800-605-3091
                                                          www.TADI-us.com

Columbus                                                                        File Name         : STH 16, STH 60, Midday
Weekday Midday                                                                  Site Code         : 00000000
#4755                                                                           Start Date        : 6/5/2013
TA.                                                                             Page No           :1
                                                Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1 - Bank 2
                        STH 16                     BP/Arby's                   STH 16/STH 60                STH 60
                      From North                   From East                     From South               From West
Start Time     Left   Thru Right    Peds    Left Thru Right Peds           Left Thru Right Peds    Left   Thru Right    Peds Int. Total
   11:00 AM     12      51      1      0     13       3      8       0       8      50     17 0      5       0     18      0      186
   11:15 AM      5      55      3      0     11       3      6       0      15      49     19 0      3       1     16      0      186
   11:30 AM      2      68      4      0     12       3      4       0      16      58     18 0      0       2     15      0      202
   11:45 AM      4      80      2      0     12       2      8       0      17      64     20 0      5       1     18      0      233
       Total    23     254     10      0     48     11      26       0      56    221      74 0     13       4     67      0      807

   12:00 PM      6     62      4      0      11      0     10     0     14    47     14      0       7       3    17       0       195
   12:15 PM      7     61      3      0      13      2      9     0     11    51     20      2       4       1    15       0       199
   12:30 PM      4     57      4      0      22      0      9     0     15    51     24      0       5       2    17       0       210
   12:45 PM      8     49      3      0      17      6      8     0     17    49     18      0       4       1    18       0       198
       Total    25    229     14      0      63      8     36     0     57   198     76      2      20       7    67       0       802

   01:00 PM      6     52      4      0      16      3      9     0     18    67     28      0       3       1    16       0       223
   01:15 PM      4     45      4      0      21      2     12     0     14    73     20      0       4       1    23       0       223
   01:30 PM      3     61      3      0       9      0      5     0     15    70     12      0       7       2    12       0       199
   01:45 PM      7     55      3      0      13      1      6     0     16    59     16      0       4       2    16       0       198
       Total    20    213     14      0      59      6     32     0     63   269     76      0      18       6    67       0       843

   02:00 PM     12     88      2      0      17      0     11     0     21    75     17      0       3      2     16       0       264
   02:15 PM      4     66      2      0      22      2      5     0     21    63     17      0       3      2     17       0       224
   02:30 PM      7    106      5      0      19      4      3     0     19    61     11      1       4      4     12       0       256
   02:45 PM      2     59      6      1      10      3      5     0     14    61     13      0       2      3     16       0       195
       Total    25    319     15      1      68      9     24     0     75   260     58      1      12     11     61       0       939

 Grand Total     93   1015     53      1     238     34    118    0    251    948    284      3      63     28    262      0     3391
   Apprch %       8   87.3    4.6    0.1      61    8.7   30.3    0   16.9   63.8   19.1    0.2    17.8    7.9   74.2      0
    Total %     2.7   29.9    1.6      0       7      1    3.5    0    7.4     28    8.4    0.1     1.9    0.8    7.7      0
   Unshifted     76    898     47      0     172     27    103    0    205    841    202      1      54     23    213      0     2862
 % Unshifted   81.7   88.5   88.7      0    72.3   79.4   87.3    0   81.7   88.7   71.1   33.3    85.7   82.1   81.3      0     84.4
     Bank 1       2     45      3      0      10      3      4    0     13     38     15      0       5      2      9      0      149
   % Bank 1     2.2    4.4    5.7      0     4.2    8.8    3.4    0    5.2      4    5.3      0     7.9    7.1    3.4      0      4.4
     Bank 2      15     72      3      1      56      4     11    0     33     69     67      2       4      3     40      0      380
   % Bank 2    16.1    7.1    5.7    100    23.5   11.8    9.3    0   13.1    7.3   23.6   66.7     6.3   10.7   15.3      0     11.2
                                           Traffic Analysis & Design, Inc.
                                                           1-800-605-3091
                                                          www.TADI-us.com

Columbus                                                                       File Name         : STH 16, STH 60, Midday
Weekday Midday                                                                 Site Code         : 00000000
#4755                                                                          Start Date        : 6/5/2013
TA.                                                                            Page No           :1
                                                     Groups Printed- Bank 1 - Bank 2
                        STH 16                      BP/Arby's                 STH 16/STH 60                STH 60
                      From North                   From East                    From South               From West
Start Time     Left   Thru Right    Peds    Left   Thru Right Peds       Left Thru Right Peds     Left   Thru Right    Peds Int. Total
   11:00 AM      1      10      0      0      2       1       0      0      1      5      4 0       0       0      6      0       30
   11:15 AM      1       3      1      0      4       0       1      0      3      5      8 0       0       0      3      0       29
   11:30 AM      0      12      0      0      5       1       1      0      2      8      5 0       0       0      5      0       39
   11:45 AM      0       6      0      0      0       0       1      0      7      7      8 0       1       1      8      0       39
       Total     2      31      1      0     11       2       3      0    13      25    25  0       1       1     22      0      137

   12:00 PM      0      3      2      0       5      0      3     0     3      7      4     0       2       1     3       0        33
   12:15 PM      0      3      0      0       1      0      1     0     3     11      4     1       0       0     2       0        26
   12:30 PM      0      9      1      0       7      0      2     0     2      4      8     0       2       0     0       0        35
   12:45 PM      3      5      0      0       3      1      1     0     1      4      1     0       0       1     2       0        22
       Total     3     20      3      0      16      1      7     0     9     26     17     1       4       2     7       0       116

   01:00 PM      0      8      2      0       2      0      1     0     5      6      4     0       0       0     1       0        29
   01:15 PM      2     11      0      0       4      1      0     0     5      9      7     0       0       0     4       0        43
   01:30 PM      0      5      0      0       2      0      0     0     4      8      4     0       2       1     2       0        28
   01:45 PM      1     10      0      0       7      0      1     0     1      3      4     0       0       0     4       0        31
       Total     3     34      2      0      15      1      2     0    15     26     19     0       2       1    11       0       131

   02:00 PM      6     10      0      0       5      0      0     0     3      7      4     0       0       0     3       0        38
   02:15 PM      2      5      0      0       8      2      0     0     4      8      4     0       1       0     3       0        37
   02:30 PM      1     10      0      0       7      1      2     0     2     12      6     1       0       0     1       0        43
   02:45 PM      0      7      0      1       4      0      1     0     0      3      7     0       1       1     2       0        27
       Total     9     32      0      1      24      3      3     0     9     30     21     1       2       1     9       0       145

 Grand Total     17    117      6      1      66      7     15    0     46    107     82     2       9      5     49      0       529
   Apprch %    12.1     83    4.3    0.7      75      8     17    0   19.4   45.1   34.6   0.8    14.3    7.9   77.8      0
    Total %     3.2   22.1    1.1    0.2    12.5    1.3    2.8    0    8.7   20.2   15.5   0.4     1.7    0.9    9.3      0
     Bank 1       2     45      3      0      10      3      4    0     13     38     15     0       5      2      9      0       149
   % Bank 1    11.8   38.5     50      0    15.2   42.9   26.7    0   28.3   35.5   18.3     0    55.6     40   18.4      0      28.2
     Bank 2      15     72      3      1      56      4     11    0     33     69     67     2       4      3     40      0       380
   % Bank 2    88.2   61.5     50    100    84.8   57.1   73.3    0   71.7   64.5   81.7   100    44.4     60   81.6      0      71.8
                                           Traffic Analysis & Design, Inc.
                                                           1-800-605-3091
                                                          www.TADI-us.com

Columbus                                                                              File Name        : STH 16, STH 60, PM
Weekday PM                                                                            Site Code        : 00000000
#4756                                                                                 Start Date       : 6/3/2013
AS.                                                                                   Page No          :1
                                                Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1 - Bank 2
                        STH 16                     BP/Arby's                    STH 16/STH 60                STH 60
                      From North                   From East                     From South                From West
Start Time     Left   Thru Right    Peds    Left Thru Right Peds           Left Thru Right Peds     Left   Thru Right    Peds Int. Total
      Factor   1.0     1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0     1.0     1.0    1.0      1.0    1.0    1.0 1.0   1.0     1.0    1.0    1.0
   03:00 PM      4      73      3      0     12       2       4      0       24     83     12   0     6       3     24      0      250
   03:15 PM      2      89      5      0     13       0       6      0       21     86     20   0     5       2     17      0      266
   03:30 PM      2      85      2      0     16       1       4      0       16   101      17   0     5       2     28      0      279
   03:45 PM      5      77      3      0     20       2       9      0       17     79     23   0     6       3     18      0      262
       Total    13     324     13      0     61       5      23      0       78   349      72   0    22      10     87      0     1057

   04:00 PM      9    114      4      0      16      0      8      0     22    108     10      0      3      5     31       0      330
   04:15 PM      5    105      5      0      22      3      9      0     23     78     17      0      6      5     19       0      297
   04:30 PM      5     91      6      0      16      2      1      0     23    110     20      0      2      2     36       0      314
   04:45 PM      6     78      3      0      12      2      9      0     26    100     17      0     10      3     29       0      295
       Total    25    388     18      0      66      7     27      0     94    396     64      0     21     15    115       0     1236

   05:00 PM      5    105      4      0      13      2      9      0     20    101     18      0     10       3    28       0      318
   05:15 PM      9     86      4      0      15      0      3      0     17    103     17      1      6       0    23       0      284
   05:30 PM      4     78      4      1      15      2      8      0     15    106     21      0      7       1    22       0      284
   05:45 PM      3     79      2      0       8      2      9      0     20     89     12      0      6       1    23       0      254
       Total    21    348     14      1      51      6     29      0     72    399     68      1     29       5    96       0     1140

   06:00 PM      8     64      7      0      14      3      6      0     16     65     13      0      1       0    17       0       214
   06:15 PM      3     54      3      0       9      1      7      0     13     54     18      0      7       0    10       0       179
   06:30 PM      5     37      4      0      19      2      3      0     13     65     16      0      3       1    13       0       181
   06:45 PM      2     42      1      0       7      1      6      0     10     45      9      0      0       0    16       0       139
       Total    18    197     15      0      49      7     22      0     52    229     56      0     11       1    56       0       713

   07:00 PM      3     27      0      0       9      1      5      0     10     44     10      0      3       2    13       0       127
   07:15 PM      5     48      1      0       5      1      5      0      7     54     11      0      3       0    11       0       151
   07:30 PM      2     23      1      0      14      3      4      0     16     58     16      0      6       0     8       1       152
   07:45 PM      1     23      1      0      14      2      3      0      8     40      8      0      1       1     7       0       109
       Total    11    121      3      0      42      7     17      0     41    196     45      0     13       3    39       1       539

 Grand Total     88   1378     63      1     269     32    118     0    337   1569    305      1      96     34    393      1     4685
   Apprch %     5.8   90.1    4.1    0.1    64.2    7.6   28.2     0   15.2   70.9   13.8      0    18.3    6.5     75    0.2
    Total %     1.9   29.4    1.3      0     5.7    0.7    2.5     0    7.2   33.5    6.5      0       2    0.7    8.4      0
   Unshifted     72   1281     60      0     208     27    111     0    311   1477    237      0      92     29    353      0     4258
 % Unshifted   81.8     93   95.2      0    77.3   84.4   94.1     0   92.3   94.1   77.7      0    95.8   85.3   89.8      0     90.9
     Bank 1       1     24      2      1       2      0      2     0     10     25      6      0       1      0     11      1       86
   % Bank 1     1.1    1.7    3.2    100     0.7      0    1.7     0      3    1.6      2      0       1      0    2.8    100      1.8
     Bank 2      15     73      1      0      59      5      5     0     16     67     62      1       3      5     29      0      341
   % Bank 2      17    5.3    1.6      0    21.9   15.6    4.2     0    4.7    4.3   20.3    100     3.1   14.7    7.4      0      7.3
                                           Traffic Analysis & Design, Inc.
                                                           1-800-605-3091
                                                          www.TADI-us.com

Columbus                                                                              File Name      : STH 16, STH 60, PM
Weekday PM                                                                            Site Code      : 00000000
#4756                                                                                 Start Date     : 6/3/2013
AS.                                                                                   Page No        :1
                                                     Groups Printed- Bank 1 - Bank 2
                        STH 16                      BP/Arby's                 STH 16/STH 60                STH 60
                      From North                   From East                    From South               From West
Start Time     Left   Thru Right    Peds    Left   Thru Right Peds       Left Thru Right Peds     Left   Thru Right    Peds Int. Total
      Factor   1.0     1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0     1.0    1.0    1.0     1.0    1.0    1.0 1.0   1.0     1.0    1.0    1.0
   03:00 PM      2       3      0      0      2       0       0      0      1      5      1   0     1       2      6      0       23
   03:15 PM      0      11      0      0      6       0       0      0      2      8      6   0     1       1      1      0       36
   03:30 PM      0       7      0      0      3       1       1      0      6      7      3   0     0       0      5      0       33
   03:45 PM      1       5      0      0      3       0       0      0      0      9      3   0     0       0      1      0       22
       Total     3      26      0      0     14       1       1      0      9     29     13   0     2       3     13      0      114

   04:00 PM      0      8      0      0       4      0      0      0     1      7      4     0      0       1     1       0        26
   04:15 PM      2      8      0      0       6      1      0      0     1      2      2     0      0       0     0       0        22
   04:30 PM      1      5      1      0       1      0      0      0     2      6      6     0      0       0     4       0        26
   04:45 PM      0      3      0      0       2      0      0      0     3      3      5     0      2       0     3       0        21
       Total     3     24      1      0      13      1      0      0     7     18     17     0      2       1     8       0        95

   05:00 PM      1      6      0      0       4      0      0      0     1      8      5     0      0       0     3       0        28
   05:15 PM      1     10      0      0       3      0      1      0     1      8      1     1      0       0     3       0        29
   05:30 PM      1      5      0      1       3      0      0      0     1      3      4     0      0       0     1       0        19
   05:45 PM      0      4      0      0       1      0      1      0     0      3      2     0      0       0     3       0        14
       Total     3     25      0      1      11      0      2      0     3     22     12     1      0       0    10       0        90

   06:00 PM      2      6      0      0       1      0      1      0     1      5      1     0      0       0     1       0        18
   06:15 PM      1      5      0      0       1      1      1      0     2      0      8     0      0       0     0       0        19
   06:30 PM      2      5      1      0       8      1      1      0     0      4      8     0      0       0     3       0        33
   06:45 PM      1      2      0      0       4      0      1      0     0      5      2     0      0       0     1       0        16
       Total     6     18      1      0      14      2      4      0     3     14     19     0      0       0     5       0        86

   07:00 PM      0       1     0      0       3      1      0      0     2      5      1     0      0       1     2       0        16
   07:15 PM      1       0     1      0       0      0      0      0     0      1      1     0      0       0     1       0         5
   07:30 PM      0       1     0      0       3      0      0      0     2      2      3     0      0       0     1       1        13
   07:45 PM      0       2     0      0       3      0      0      0     0      1      2     0      0       0     0       0         8
       Total     1       4     1      0       9      1      0      0     4      9      7     0      0       1     4       1        42

 Grand Total     16     97      3      1      61     5      7      0     26     92     68     1     4      5      40      1       427
   Apprch %    13.7   82.9    2.6    0.9    83.6   6.8    9.6      0   13.9   49.2   36.4   0.5     8     10      80      2
    Total %     3.7   22.7    0.7    0.2    14.3   1.2    1.6      0    6.1   21.5   15.9   0.2   0.9    1.2     9.4    0.2
     Bank 1       1     24      2      1       2     0      2      0     10     25      6     0     1      0      11      1        86
   % Bank 1     6.2   24.7   66.7    100     3.3     0   28.6      0   38.5   27.2    8.8     0    25      0    27.5    100      20.1
     Bank 2      15     73      1      0      59     5      5      0     16     67     62     1     3      5      29      0       341
   % Bank 2    93.8   75.3   33.3      0    96.7   100   71.4      0   61.5   72.8   91.2   100    75    100    72.5      0      79.9
                             APPENDIX B2


                  TRAFFIC VOLUME DATA

            WISDOT TRAFFIC FORECASTS




Traffic Analysis & Design, Inc.            APPENDIX
               WisDOT TRAFFIC FORECAST REPORT                                              Region/COUNTY(IES): Southwest-Madison / Columbia                                                Developed by: Kim Tran
        PROJECT ID(S): 1401-02-02                                                                             LOCATION: STH 16& STH 60 Intersection                                        Phone: (608) 264-7265
               ROUTE(S): STH 16, STH 60                                                                      COMPLETED: 7-11-13                                                            FAX #: (608) 267-0294
                     Traffic Forecasting Section; Bureau of Planning and Economic Development; Division of Transportation Investment Management                                            E-Mail: kim.tran@dot.wi.gov

                                                                                  STH 16 AND STH 60 MAINLINE FORECASTS WITHOUT THE COLUMBUS
                                                                                          COMMERCE CENTER DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS                                                                                                                  N




                                                                                                       Rd
                                                Columbus




                                                                                                     River
                                                                                                                                                             Columbus

                                                                                   S
                                                                                   T




                                                                                                  s-Fall
                                                                                      16




                                                                                                bu
                                                              Site ID: 110799




                                                                                             lum
                                                                  -9800-                                                               Site ID: 110995




                                                                                           Co
                                                                 (10200)                                                                  -14500-                                         $
                                                                 [11300]
                                                                  12500
                                                                                                                                          (15100)
                                                                                                                                          [17100]
                                                                                                                                                                                          £
                                                                                                                                                                                          ¤
                                                                                                                                                                                          $ 151

                                                                                                                                           19200


                                                                                                                   on
                                                                                                                                                                       $
                                                                                                              Fr




                                                                                                                    ta
                                                                                                                       ge
                                                                                                                         Rd
                                                                                                                            N
                                                                                           Co
                                                                                                                                                                                                  r
                                                                                                                                                                                              D




                                                                                             mm




                                                                                                                                                                                      ri al
                                                                                               e rc




                                                                                                                                                                                   st
                                                                                                                                                                                In d u
                                                                                                                                                     mp
                                                                                                   eD
                                                                   S
                                                                   T                                                                   £
                                                                                                                                       ¤




                                                                                                                                                   Ra
                                                                                                     r
                                                                       60                                                               151
                                                                                                                                       $


                                                                                                                          mp
                                                                                                                                        $




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Dr
                                                                                                                        Ra
                                                                                                                                                                                        Fris




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           tal
                                                                                                                                                                                            c   hD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        n
                                                                                                                                                                                                  r




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ne
                                                                                                                                                       $




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     nti
                                                                                                                        Columbus




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Co
                            Site ID: 110391
                               -1600-
                               (1700)
                               [1800]




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Wa
                                2000




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AP
                                                                             r




                                                                                                                                                                                                               r
                                                                          D




                                                                                                                                                                                                      Meister D
                                               S
                                               T
                                                                      sit




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Hurrelle St
                                                 60                                                                                               Commercial Dr
                                                                    T ra n




                                                                                                                                                                               Dix St
                                                                                                                                                          Maple Rd

                                                                                 $$
                 Design Values (%)                      -000- 2011 Count              (000) 2014 AADT               NOTES ON THE FORECAST:                                                 MORE NOTES ON THE FORECAST:
Sites             110995                                                              [000] 2024 AADT
Routes            STH 16                                                              000 2034 AADT                                                                                        3. STH 16 is considered a rural minor arterial for count purposes. STH
                                                                                                                    1. This projection assumes that no major new traffic generators
                                                                                                                                                                                           16 is a factor group 4 indicating low to moderate fluctuations in traffic
                   19200                                                                                            will be added to the development.
Volume(s):                                                                                                                                                                                 over the course of the year.
K250                9.7                                            Truck Class Percents
K100               10.9                         Class            STH 16                                             2. Truck classification percentages were taken for site # 110799
K30                11.7                         2D                6.8                                               on STH 16 north of USH 151 in the City of Columbus, Columbia
                                                                                                                    County.
P                  14.3                         3AX               1.2
                                                2S1+2S2           4.0
D(Dsgn. Hr.)       60/40                        3-S2              3.0
T(DHV)             12.7                         DBL-BTM           0.1
T(PHV)              6.8                         TOTAL            15.1%
               WisDOT TRAFFIC FORECAST REPORT                                               Region/COUNTY(IES): Southwest-Madison / Columbia                                                Developed by: Kim Tran
        PROJECT ID(S): 1401-02-02                                                                              LOCATION: STH 16& STH 60 Intersection                                        Phone: (608) 264-7265
               ROUTE(S): STH 16, STH 60                                                                       COMPLETED: 7-11-13                                                            FAX #: (608) 267-0294
                     Traffic Forecasting Section; Bureau of Planning and Economic Development; Division of Transportation Investment Management                                             E-Mail: kim.tran@dot.wi.gov

                                                                                 STH 16 AND STH 60 MAINLINE FORECASTS WITH THE COLUMBUS COMMERCE
                                                                                                  CENTER DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS                                                                                                                    N




                                                                                                        Rd
                                                Columbus




                                                                                                      River
                                                                                                                                                               Columbus

                                                                                      S
                                                                                      T




                                                                                                   s-Fall
                                                                                       16




                                                                                                 bu
                                                              Site ID: 110799




                                                                                              lum
                                                                  -9800-                                                                 Site ID: 110995




                                                                                            Co
                                                                 (10600)                                                                    -14500-                                        $
                                                                 [14100]
                                                                  15300
                                                                                                                                            (16400)
                                                                                                                                            [26300]
                                                                                                                                                                                           £
                                                                                                                                                                                           ¤
                                                                                                                                                                                           $ 151

                                                                                                                                             28400


                                                                                                                    on
                                                                                                                                                                         $
                                                                                                               Fr




                                                                                                                     ta
                                                                                                                        ge
                                                                                                                          Rd
                                                                                                                             N
                                                                                            Co
                                                                                                                                                                                                   r
                                                                                                                                                                                               D




                                                                                              mm




                                                                                                                                                                                       ri al
                                                                                                e rc




                                                                                                                                                                                    st
                                                                                                                                                                                 In d u
                                                                                                                                                      mp
                                                                                                    eD
                                                                   S
                                                                   T                                                                    £
                                                                                                                                        ¤




                                                                                                                                                    Ra
                                                                                                      r
                                                                       60                                                                151
                                                                                                                                        $


                                                                                                                           mp
                                                                                                                                         $




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Dr
                                                                                                                         Ra
                                                                                                                                                                                         Fris




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            tal
                                                                                                                                                                                             c   hD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         n
                                                                                                                                                                                                   r




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ne
                                                                                                                                                        $




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      nti
                                                                                                                         Columbus




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Co
                            Site ID: 110391
                               -1600-
                               (1800)
                               [2400]




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Wa
                                2600




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AP
                                                                             r




                                                                                                                                                                                                                r
                                                                          D




                                                                                                                                                                                                       Meister D
                                               S
                                               T
                                                                      sit




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Hurrelle St
                                                 60                                                                                                Commercial Dr
                                                                    T ra n




                                                                                                                                                                                Dix St
                                                                                                                                                           Maple Rd

                                                                                 $$
                 Design Values (%)                      -000- 2011 Count              (000) 2014 AADT                NOTES ON THE FORECAST:                                                 MORE NOTES ON THE FORECAST:
Sites             110995                                                               [000] 2024 AADT
Routes            STH 16                                                               000 2034 AADT                                                                                   3. STH 16 is considered a rural minor arterial for count purposes. STH
                                                                                                                     1. This projection assumes that major new traffic generators will
                                                                                                                                                                                       16 is a factor group 4 indicating low to moderate fluctuations in traffic
                   28400                                                                                             be added to the development.
Volume(s):                                                                                                                                                                             over the course of the year.
K250                9.6                                            Truck Class Percents
K100               10.8                         Class            STH 16                                              2. Truck classification percentages were taken for site # 110799
K30                11.5                         2D                6.8                                                on STH 16 north of USH 151 in the City of Columbus, Columbia
                                                                                                                                                                                      4. The 2014, 2024, 2034 trip projections of Columbus Commerce Center
                                                                                                                     County.
P                  14.0                         3AX               1.2                                                                                                                 Development were added to the AADT, AM, and PM turning movement
                                                                                                                                                                                      forecasts.
                                                2S1+2S2           4.0
D(Dsgn. Hr.)       60.4                         3-S2              3.0
T(DHV)              4.2                         DBL-BTM           0.1
T(PHV)              2.3                         TOTAL            15.1%
WisDot Bureau of Planning                                                                               Projected AM Design Hour Traffic Volumes                                                                           Project Description
Traffic Forecasting Section                                                                                                                                                                                                Project ID: 1410-02-02
Forecast by: Kim Tran                                                                                                                                             Design Hour: 7:15am - 8:15am                             Location: STH 60 and STH 16 Intersection
Phone: 608-264-7265                                                                                                                                                                                                        Route: STH 60 and STH 16
Email: kim.tran@dot.wi.gov                                                                                                                            Forecast Completed: 7-11-13                                          Region/County: SW-Madison-Columbia
                                        Design Hour Turning Movement Data
                                                                                                        Year:             2013
                                          STH 16                                                                                                                                            STH 16
                                                                                            759         Forecast Year:                                                                                                                            773                 Forecast Year:        2014
           N                                                                     0                                                                                                                                                    0


                                                                  441                                                                                                                                                449
                                                   21             401            19               318 BP-Arby Driveway                                                                               27              402             20                     324 BP-Arby Driveway


         170                      100                                                                               18                                      213                       127                                                                                18
                                                                          123                                       13           75                                                                                            144                                       13            75
          0                        14                       464                       366                           44                        0              0                         20                      466                          393                          44                        0
                        70          5                                     38                                                                                               86           5                                      45
                                   51                                                                               78                       153                                       61                                                                                79                    154


STH 60                                           496                             66         286    54                                              STH 60                                            507                             87           286        54
                                                                                            406                                                                                                                                                   427


                                                                                 0                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                  902                                                                                                                                                934
                                                        STH 16 - STH 60                                                                                                                                    STH 16 - STH 60
                                                                                                                                                                  2014 INCLUDES PHASE 1 OF THE COLUMBUS COMMERCE CENTER (CCC) DEVELOPMENT
                                        STH 16                                                                                                                                              STH 16
                                                                                            989                 Forecast Year:        2024                                                                                                     1089                   Forecast Year:        2034
                                                                                 0                                                                                                                                                    0


                                                                  582                                                                                                                                                640
                                                 108              453           21                407 BP-Arby Driveway                                                                               109             509             22                     449 BP-Arby Driveway


         774                     486                                                                               19                                       796                       499                                                                                19
                                                                          427                                      14            82                                                                                            445                                       14            88
          0                        66                       523                       752                          49                         0              0                         67                      586                          806                          55                        0
                      288           6                                     93                                                                                              297           6                                      95
                                 216                                                                               87                    169                                          224                                                                                93                    181


STH 60                                           718                            364         322    60                                              STH 60                                            788                             376          363        65
                                                                                            746                                                                                                                                                   804


                                                                                 0                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                              1464                                                                                                                                               1592
                                                        STH 16 - STH 60                                                                                                                                    STH 16 - STH 60
               2024 INCLUDES FULL BUILDOUT OF CCC                                                                                                                 2034 INCLUDES FULL BUILDOUT OF CCC
WisDot Bureau of Planning                                                                                 Projected PM Design Hour Traffic Volumes                                                                           Project Description

Traffic Forecasting Section                                                                                                                                                                                                  Project ID: 1410-02-02
Forecast by: Kim Tran                                                                                                                                               Design Hour: 4:00pm - 5:00pm                             Location: STH 60 and STH 16 Intersection
Phone: 608-264-7265                                                                                                                                                                                                          Route: STH 60 and STH 16
Email: kim.tran@dot.wi.gov                                                                                                                              Forecast Completed: 7-11-13                                          Region/County: SW-Madison-Columbia
                                        Design Hour Turning Movement Data
                                                                                                         Year:             2013
                                          STH 16                                                                                                                                               STH 16
                                                                                             875         Forecast Year:                                                                                                                             923                 Forecast Year:         2014
          N                                                                      0                                                                                                                                                      0



                                                                 431                                                                                                                                                   455
                                                   18            388             25                444 BP-Arby Driveway                                                                                 34             395             26                    468 BP-Arby Driveway


         270                      119                                                                               27                                        435                        201                                                                               28
                                                                          167                                        7            100                                                                                            233                                        7            101
          0                        21                      479                        511                           66                          0              0                          42                     487                          600                          66                         0
                      151          15                                     61                                                                                                234           15                                     83
                                  115                                                                              104                         204                                       177                                                                              105                     206


STH 60                                           569                             94          396    64                                               STH 60                                             638                            160          398       64
                                                                                             554                                                                                                                                                    622


                                                                                 0                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                 1123                                                                                                                                               1260
                                                        STH 16 - STH 60                                                                                                                                       STH 16 - STH 60
                                                                                                                                                                    2014 INCLUDES PHASE 1 OF THE COLUMBUS COMMERCE CENTER (CCC) DEVELOPMENT
                                        STH 16                                                                                                                                                 STH 16
                                                                                        1227                     Forecast Year:         2024                                                                                                     1342                   Forecast Year:         2034
                                                                                 0                                                                                                                                                      0


                                                                 596                                                                                                                                                   653
                                                 130             439            27                 631 BP-Arby Driveway                                                                                 131            494             28                    689 BP-Arby Driveway


      1364                       619                                                                                29                                    1400                           635                                                                               30
                                                                          562                                        8            110                                                                                            585                                        9            120
          0                      158                       539                        1083                          73                          0              0                         159                     603                         1154                          81                         0
                      745         16                                      201                                                                                               765           17                                     204
                                 571                                                                              114                          224                                       589                                                                              124                     244


STH 60                                        1083                              481          444    71                                               STH 60                                         1164                               495          500       79
                                                                                             996                                                                                                                                                 1074


                                                                                 0                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                              2079                                                                                                                                                  2238
                                                        STH 16 - STH 60                                                                                                                                       STH 16 - STH 60
               2024 INCLUDES FULL BUILDOUT OF CCC                                                                                                                   2034 INCLUDES FULL BUILDOUT OF CCC
WisDot Bureau pf Planning                                                               Projected Average Annual Daily Traffic Volumes                                                                                    Project Description

Traffic Forecasting Section                                                                                                                                                                                               Project ID: 1410-02-02
Forecast by: Kim Tran                                                                                                                                               Design Hour: 24 hours                                 Location: STH 60 and STH 16 Intersection
Phone: 608-264-7265                                                                                                                                                                                                       Route: STH 60 and STH 16
Email: kim.tran@dot.wi.gov                                                                                                                                Forecast Completed: 7-11-13                                     Region/County: SW-Madison-Columbia
                                                         Turning Movement Data
                                                                                                            Year:             2013
                                           STH 16                                                                                                                                             STH 16
                                                                                             9510           Forecast Year:                                                                                                                    10570                  Forecast Year:          2014
           N                                                                       0                                                                                                                                                   0


                                                                4861                                                                                                                                               5116
                                                  296           4347              218                4649 BP-Arby Driveway                                                                             527         4370               219                 5454 BP-Arby Driveway


         2821                     1402                                                                                 366                                  5255                       2694                                                                            367
                                                                           1962                                        116           1338                                                                                      3027                                    117            1344
           0                       245                      5421                          5273                         856                         0            0                       476                     5449                        7137                       860                          0
                      1419         107                                     570                                                                                             2561         110                                    805
                                  1067                                                                                1286                     2624                                    1975                                                                           1299                     2643


STH 60                                            6270                            990        4038     961                                              STH 60                                      7205                           2050         4611        970
                                                                                             5989                                                                                                                                              7631


                                                                                   0                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                               12259                                                                                                                                              14836
                                                         STH 16 - STH 60                                                                                                                                     STH 16 - STH 60
                                                                                                                                                                    2014 INCLUDES PHASE 1 OF THE COLUMBUS COMMERCE CENTER (CCC) DEVELOPMENT
                                         STH 16                                                                                                                                               STH 16
                                                                                           14627                    Forecast Year:          2024                                                                                              16480                  Forecast Year:          2034
                                                                                   0                                                                                                                                                   0


                                                               7037                                                                                                                                                8373
                                              1715             5097               225               7590 BP-Arby Driveway                                                                          1718            6345               310                 8107 BP-Arby Driveway


     15617                       7791                                                                                 380                                  15777                       7937                                                                            381
                                                                           7094                                       119            1517                                                                                      7239                                    121            1522
           0                     1665                       6340                         13167                       1018                          0            0                      1667                     7675                        13824                     1020                          0
                      7826        111                                      2001                                                                                            7840         113                                    2090
                                 6050                                                                                1331                     2848                                     6060                                                                           1551                     3073


STH 60                                       12165                            5957           5545    995                                               STH 60                                     13425                           6098         6059       1128
                                                                                           12497                                                                                                                                              13285


                                                                                   0                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                              24662                                                                                                                                               26710
                                                         STH 16 - STH 60                                                                                                                                     STH 16 - STH 60
                2024 INCLUDES FULL BUILDOUT OF CCC                                                                                                                  2034 INCLUDES FULL BUILDOUT OF CCC
                             APPENDIX C1


        TRAFFIC OPERATIONAL ANALYSIS

           EXISTING 2013 TWSC ANALYSIS
                    (NO BUILD)




Traffic Analysis & Design, Inc.            APPENDIX
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                          2013 TWSC Existing
3: STH 60 & STH 16                                                                                                      AM Peak Hour



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      2.8

Movement                      EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR      NBL         NBT    NBR      SBL        SBT     SBR
Vol, veh/h                      15        5      50       45       15      20       65         285     55       20        400      20
Conflicting Peds, #/hr           0        0       0        0        0       0        0           0      0        0          0       0
Sign Control                  Stop     Stop    Stop     Stop     Stop    Stop     Free        Free   Free     Free       Free    Free
RT Channelized                   -        -    None        -        -    None        -           -   None        -          -    None
Storage Length                   -        -      25        -        -      25      210           -    235      225          -     225
Veh in Median Storage, #         -        0       -        -        0       -        -           2      -        -          2       -
Grade, %                         -        0       -        -        0       -        -           0      -        -          0       -
Peak Hour Factor                94       94      94       94       94      94       94          94     94       94         94      94
Heavy Vehicles, %               23       23      23       31       31      31       12          12     12        9          9       9
Mvmt Flow                       16        5      53       48       16      21       69         303     59       21        426      21

Major/Minor                 Minor2                     Minor1                    Major1                      Major2
Conflicting Flow All           766     909      213       699    909      152      426          0       0      303          0       0
         Stage 1               468     468         -      441    441         -        -         -       -         -         -       -
         Stage 2               298     441         -      258    468         -        -         -       -         -         -       -
Follow-up Headway             3.73     4.23     3.53     3.81    4.31     3.61     2.32         -       -      2.29         -       -
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver        257     239      731       276    227      783     1062          -       -     1206          -       -
         Stage 1               493     510         -      494    508         -        -         -       -         -         -       -
         Stage 2               631     525         -      648    492         -        -         -       -         -         -       -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                                                                         -       -                   -       -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver        226      220     731      237      209     783     1062          -       -     1206          -       -
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver        382      376       -      382      344       -        -          -       -        -          -       -
         Stage 1               461      501       -      462      475       -        -          -       -        -          -       -
         Stage 2               555      491       -      584      483       -        -          -       -        -          -       -

Approach                       EB                         WB                        NB                          SB
HCM Control Delay, s          11.7                       15.1                       1.4                         0.4
HCM LOS                          B                         C

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt                NBL      NBT     NBR EBLn1 EBLn2 WBLn1 WBLn2                   SBL      SBT       SBR
Capacity (veh/h)                      1062        -        -  487    731   392   783                 1206        -          -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.065       -        -  0.08 0.049 0.181 0.018                 0.018       -          -
HCM Control Delay (s)                 8.626       -        -    13  10.2  16.2    9.7                8.039       -          -
HCM Lane LOS                              A                      B     B     C      A                    A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                 0.209        -       -  0.26 0.153 0.652 0.055                 0.054        -         -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




Project ID: 1401-02-02                                                                                                Synchro 8 Report
TADI                                                                                                                           Page 1
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                          2013 TWSC Existing
3: STH 60 & STH 16                                                                                                      PM Peak Hour



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      3.7

Movement                      EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR      NBL         NBT    NBR      SBL        SBT     SBR
Vol, veh/h                      20       15     115       65        5      25       95         395     65       25        390      20
Conflicting Peds, #/hr           0        0       0        0        0       0        0           0      0        0          0       0
Sign Control                  Stop     Stop    Stop     Stop     Stop    Stop     Free        Free   Free     Free       Free    Free
RT Channelized                   -        -    None        -        -    None        -           -   None        -          -    None
Storage Length                   -        -      25        -        -      25      210           -    235      225          -     225
Veh in Median Storage, #         -        0       -        -        0       -        -           2      -        -          2       -
Grade, %                         -        0       -        -        0       -        -           0      -        -          0       -
Peak Hour Factor                94       94      94       94       94      94       94          94     94       94         94      94
Heavy Vehicles, %                7        7       7       14       14      14        8           8      8        7          7       7
Mvmt Flow                       21       16     122       69        5      27      101         420     69       27        415      21

Major/Minor                 Minor2                     Minor1                    Major1                      Major2
Conflicting Flow All           883    1090      207       891    1090     210      415          0       0      420          0       0
         Stage 1               468     468         -      622     622        -        -         -       -         -         -       -
         Stage 2               415     622         -      269     468        -        -         -       -         -         -       -
Follow-up Headway             3.57     4.07     3.37     3.64     4.14    3.44     2.28         -       -      2.27         -       -
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver        232     206      784       219     196     760     1099          -       -     1101          -       -
         Stage 1               532     547         -      413     448        -        -         -       -         -         -       -
         Stage 2               572     465         -      681     530        -        -         -       -         -         -       -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                                                                         -       -                   -       -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver        202      182     784      163      174     760     1099          -       -     1101          -       -
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver        365      337       -      306      315       -        -          -       -        -          -       -
         Stage 1               483      534       -      375      407       -        -          -       -        -          -       -
         Stage 2               495      422       -      544      517       -        -          -       -        -          -       -

Approach                       EB                        WB                         NB                          SB
HCM Control Delay, s          11.8                        18                        1.5                         0.5
HCM LOS                          B                         C

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt                NBL      NBT     NBR EBLn1 EBLn2 WBLn1 WBLn2                   SBL      SBT       SBR
Capacity (veh/h)                      1099        -        -   495   784   327   760                 1101        -          -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.092       -        - 0.158 0.104 0.255 0.023                 0.024       -          -
HCM Control Delay (s)                 8.607       -        -  13.6  10.1  19.7    9.9                8.351       -          -
HCM Lane LOS                              A                      B     B     C      A                    A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                 0.303        -       - 0.555 0.347 0.994 0.072                 0.074        -         -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




Project ID: 1401-02-02                                                                                                Synchro 8 Report
TADI                                                                                                                           Page 1
                             APPENDIX C2


        TRAFFIC OPERATIONAL ANALYSIS

            FORECASTED TWSC ANALYSIS
                   (NO BUILD)

                       Construction Year 2014
                         Interim Year 2024
                         Design Year 2034




Traffic Analysis & Design, Inc.                 APPENDIX
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                         2014 TWSC No Build
3: STH 60 & STH 16                                                                                                      AM Peak Hour



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      3.1

Movement                      EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR      NBL         NBT    NBR      SBL        SBT     SBR
Vol, veh/h                      20        5      60       45       15      20       85         285     55       20        400      25
Conflicting Peds, #/hr           0        0       0        0        0       0        0           0      0        0          0       0
Sign Control                  Stop     Stop    Stop     Stop     Stop    Stop     Free        Free   Free     Free       Free    Free
RT Channelized                   -        -    None        -        -    None        -           -   None        -          -    None
Storage Length                   -        -      25        -        -      25      210           -    235      225          -     225
Veh in Median Storage, #         -        0       -        -        0       -        -           2      -        -          2       -
Grade, %                         -        0       -        -        0       -        -           0      -        -          0       -
Peak Hour Factor                94       94      94       94       94      94       94          94     94       94         94      94
Heavy Vehicles, %               23       23      23       31       31      31       12          12     12        9          9       9
Mvmt Flow                       21        5      64       48       16      21       90         303     59       21        426      27

Major/Minor                 Minor2                     Minor1                    Major1                      Major2
Conflicting Flow All           808     952      213       742    952      152      426          0       0      303          0       0
         Stage 1               468     468         -      484    484         -        -         -       -         -         -       -
         Stage 2               340     484         -      258    468         -        -         -       -         -         -       -
Follow-up Headway             3.73     4.23     3.53     3.81    4.31     3.61     2.32         -       -      2.29         -       -
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver        239     224      731       256    213      783     1062          -       -     1206          -       -
         Stage 1               493     510         -      464    483         -        -         -       -         -         -       -
         Stage 2               593     501         -      648    492         -        -         -       -         -         -       -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                                                                         -       -                   -       -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver        207      201     731      213      192     783     1062          -       -     1206          -       -
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver        361      358       -      352      323       -        -          -       -        -          -       -
         Stage 1               451      501       -      425      442       -        -          -       -        -          -       -
         Stage 2               509      459       -      575      483       -        -          -       -        -          -       -

Approach                        EB                       WB                         NB                          SB
HCM Control Delay, s            12                        16                        1.7                         0.4
HCM LOS                          B                         C

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt                NBL      NBT     NBR EBLn1 EBLn2 WBLn1 WBLn2                   SBL      SBT       SBR
Capacity (veh/h)                      1062        -        -   465   731   365   783                 1206        -          -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.085       -        - 0.103 0.058 0.194 0.018                 0.018       -          -
HCM Control Delay (s)                 8.705       -        -  13.6  10.2  17.2    9.7                8.039       -          -
HCM Lane LOS                              A                      B     B     C      A                    A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                 0.279        -       - 0.342 0.185  0.71 0.055                 0.054        -         -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




Project ID: 1401-02-02                                                                                                Synchro 8 Report
TADI                                                                                                                           Page 1
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                         2014 TWSC No Build
3: STH 60 & STH 16                                                                                                      PM Peak Hour



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      5.1

Movement                      EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR      NBL         NBT    NBR      SBL        SBT     SBR
Vol, veh/h                      40       15     175       65        5      30      160         400     65       25        395      35
Conflicting Peds, #/hr           0        0       0        0        0       0        0           0      0        0          0       0
Sign Control                  Stop     Stop    Stop     Stop     Stop    Stop     Free        Free   Free     Free       Free    Free
RT Channelized                   -        -    None        -        -    None        -           -   None        -          -    None
Storage Length                   -        -      25        -        -      25      210           -    235      225          -     225
Veh in Median Storage, #         -        0       -        -        0       -        -           2      -        -          2       -
Grade, %                         -        0       -        -        0       -        -           0      -        -          0       -
Peak Hour Factor                94       94      94       94       94      94       94          94     94       94         94      94
Heavy Vehicles, %                7        7       7       14       14      14        8           8      8        7          7       7
Mvmt Flow                       43       16     186       69        5      32      170         426     69       27        420      37

Major/Minor                 Minor2                     Minor1                    Major1                      Major2
Conflicting Flow All         1029     1239      210     1037     1239     213      420          0       0      426          0       0
         Stage 1               473     473         -      766     766        -        -         -       -         -         -       -
         Stage 2               556     766         -      271     473        -        -         -       -         -         -       -
Follow-up Headway             3.57     4.07     3.37     3.64     4.14    3.44     2.28         -       -      2.27         -       -
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver        181     167      780       170     158     756     1094          -       -     1095          -       -
         Stage 1               528     544         -      336     382        -        -         -       -         -         -       -
         Stage 2               470     398         -      679     528        -        -         -       -         -         -       -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                                                                         -       -                   -       -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver        148      138     780      107      130     756     1094          -       -     1095          -       -
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver        289      274       -      223      252       -        -          -       -        -          -       -
         Stage 1               446      531       -      284      323       -        -          -       -        -          -       -
         Stage 2               374      336       -      489      515       -        -          -       -        -          -       -

Approach                       EB                         WB                        NB                          SB
HCM Control Delay, s          13.7                       23.7                       2.3                         0.5
HCM LOS                          B                         C

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt                NBL      NBT     NBR EBLn1 EBLn2 WBLn1 WBLn2                   SBL      SBT       SBR
Capacity (veh/h)                      1094        -        -   423   780   246   756                 1095        -          -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.156       -        - 0.285 0.159 0.346 0.028                 0.024       -          -
HCM Control Delay (s)                 8.896       -        -  16.9  10.5  27.2    9.9                8.369       -          -
HCM Lane LOS                              A                      C     B     D      A                    A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                  0.55        -       -  1.16 0.564 1.478 0.087                 0.075        -         -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




Project ID: 1401-02-02                                                                                                Synchro 8 Report
TADI                                                                                                                           Page 1
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                         2024 TWSC No Build
3: STH 60 & STH 16                                                                                                      AM Peak Hour



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh     66.6

Movement                      EBL      EBT     EBR        WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL         NBT    NBR      SBL        SBT     SBR
Vol, veh/h                      65        5     215         50      15      20     365         320     60       20        455     110
Conflicting Peds, #/hr           0        0       0          0       0       0       0           0      0        0          0       0
Sign Control                  Stop     Stop    Stop       Stop    Stop    Stop    Free        Free   Free     Free       Free    Free
RT Channelized                   -        -    None          -       -    None       -           -   None        -          -    None
Storage Length                   -        -      25          -       -      25     210           -    235      225          -     225
Veh in Median Storage, #         -        0       -          -       0       -       -           2      -        -          2       -
Grade, %                         -        0       -          -       0       -       -           0      -        -          0       -
Peak Hour Factor                94       94      94         94      94      94      94          94     94       94         94      94
Heavy Vehicles, %               23       23      23         31      31      31      12          12     12        9          9       9
Mvmt Flow                       69        5     229         53      16      21     388         340     64       21        484     117

Major/Minor                 Minor2                      Minor1                   Major1                      Major2
Conflicting Flow All         1482     1644      242      1404     1644    170      484          0       0      340          0       0
         Stage 1               527     527         -     1117     1117       -        -         -       -         -         -       -
         Stage 2               955    1117         -       287     527       -        -         -       -         -         -       -
Follow-up Headway             3.73     4.23     3.53      3.81     4.31   3.61    2.32          -       -     2.29          -       -
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver         71       80     699         76       74   760     1008          -       -     1167          -       -
         Stage 1               452     477         -       177     227       -        -         -       -         -         -       -
         Stage 2               240     240         -       621     460       -        -         -       -         -         -       -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                                                                         -       -                   -       -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver       # 39       48     699       # 34      45     760    1008          -       -     1167          -       -
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver         97      118       -       # 18      60       -       -          -       -        -          -       -
         Stage 1               278      468       -        109     140       -       -          -       -        -          -       -
         Stage 2               127      148       -        406     452       -       -          -       -        -          -       -

Approach                       EB                           WB                      NB                          SB
HCM Control Delay, s          50.7                     $ 1113.5                     5.3                         0.3
HCM LOS                          F                            F

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt                NBL      NBT       NBR EBLn1 EBLn2 WBLn1 WBLn2                 SBL      SBT       SBR
Capacity (veh/h)                      1008        -          -   174   699       24   760            1167        -          -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.385       -          - 0.866 0.218 3.177 0.019               0.018       -          -
HCM Control Delay (s)                10.791       -          -  90.3  11.6 $ 1318.8   9.8            8.142       -          -
HCM Lane LOS                              B                        F     B        F     A                A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                 1.836        -         - 6.202 0.827     9.53 0.057            0.056        -         -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




Project ID: 1401-02-02                                                                                                Synchro 8 Report
TADI                                                                                                                           Page 1
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                         2024 TWSC No Build
3: STH 60 & STH 16                                                                                                      PM Peak Hour



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh    278.7

Movement                      EBL      EBT     EBR       WBL     WBT     WBR      NBL         NBT    NBR      SBL        SBT     SBR
Vol, veh/h                     160       15     570        75      10      30      480         445     70       25        440     130
Conflicting Peds, #/hr           0        0       0         0       0       0        0           0      0        0          0       0
Sign Control                  Stop     Stop    Stop      Stop    Stop    Stop     Free        Free   Free     Free       Free    Free
RT Channelized                   -        -    None         -       -    None        -           -   None        -          -    None
Storage Length                   -        -      25         -       -      25      210           -    235      225          -     225
Veh in Median Storage, #         -        0       -         -       0       -        -           2      -        -          2       -
Grade, %                         -        0       -         -       0       -        -           0      -        -          0       -
Peak Hour Factor                94       94      94        94      94      94       94          94     94       94         94      94
Heavy Vehicles, %                7        7       7        14      14      14        8           8      8        7          7       7
Mvmt Flow                      170       16     606        80      11      32      511         473     74       27        468     138

Major/Minor                 Minor2                     Minor1                    Major1                      Major2
Conflicting Flow All         1784      2016     234     1790     2016     237      468          0       0      473          0       0
         Stage 1               521      521        -    1495     1495        -        -         -       -         -         -       -
         Stage 2             1263      1495        -      295     521        -        -         -       -         -         -       -
Follow-up Headway             3.57      4.07    3.37     3.64     4.14    3.44     2.28         -       -      2.27         -       -
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver       # 49        55    753      # 45       50    729     1049          -       -     1051          -       -
         Stage 1               494      517        -      115     165        -        -         -       -         -         -       -
         Stage 2               172      176        -      656     501        -        -         -       -         -         -       -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                                                                         -       -                   -       -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver       # 10       27     753       #4       25     729     1049          -       -     1051          -       -
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver       # 44       60       -      # 55      13       -        -          -       -        -          -       -
         Stage 1               253      504       -      # 59      85       -        -          -       -        -          -       -
         Stage 2              # 74       90       -       121     488       -        -          -       -        -          -       -

Approach                        EB                         WB                       NB                          SB
HCM Control Delay, s        $ 807.7                    $ 654.9                      5.6                         0.4
HCM LOS                           F                          F

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt                 NBL     NBT      NBR EBLn1 EBLn2 WBLn1 WBLn2                  SBL      SBT       SBR
Capacity (veh/h)                       1049       -         -      88  753      44  729              1051        -          -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                     0.487      -         - 4.412 0.537 2.297 0.029                0.025       -          -
HCM Control Delay (s)                 11.642      -         - $ 1632.7 15.2 $ 790.6 10.1             8.514       -          -
HCM Lane LOS                               B                         F   C        F    B                 A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                  2.734       -        - 41.082 3.237 10.681   0.09             0.078        -         -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




Project ID: 1401-02-02                                                                                                Synchro 8 Report
TADI                                                                                                                           Page 1
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                         2034 TWSC No Build
3: STH 60 & STH 16                                                                                                      AM Peak Hour



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh    105.4

Movement                      EBL      EBT     EBR        WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL         NBT    NBR      SBL        SBT     SBR
Vol, veh/h                      65        5     225         55      15      20     375         365     65       20        510     110
Conflicting Peds, #/hr           0        0       0          0       0       0       0           0      0        0          0       0
Sign Control                  Stop     Stop    Stop       Stop    Stop    Stop    Free        Free   Free     Free       Free    Free
RT Channelized                   -        -    None          -       -    None       -           -   None        -          -    None
Storage Length                   -        -      25          -       -      25     210           -    235      225          -     225
Veh in Median Storage, #         -        0       -          -       0       -       -           2      -        -          2       -
Grade, %                         -        0       -          -       0       -       -           0      -        -          0       -
Peak Hour Factor                94       94      94         94      94      94      94          94     94       94         94      94
Heavy Vehicles, %               23       23      23         31      31      31      12          12     12        9          9       9
Mvmt Flow                       69        5     239         59      16      21     399         388     69       21        543     117

Major/Minor                 Minor2                      Minor1                   Major1                      Major2
Conflicting Flow All         1585     1771      271      1502     1771    194      543          0       0      388          0       0
         Stage 1               585     585         -     1186     1186       -        -         -       -         -         -       -
         Stage 2             1000     1186         -       316     585       -        -         -       -         -         -       -
Follow-up Headway             3.73     4.23     3.53      3.81     4.31   3.61    2.32          -       -      2.29         -       -
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver       # 59       66     667         64       61   732      956          -       -     1118          -       -
         Stage 1               415     447         -       159     208       -        -         -       -         -         -       -
         Stage 2               224     221         -       595     430       -        -         -       -         -         -       -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                                                                         -       -                   -       -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver       # 17       38     667       # 26      35     732     956          -       -     1118          -       -
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver         80      101       -       # 14      22       -       -          -       -        -          -       -
         Stage 1               242      439       -         93     121       -       -          -       -        -          -       -
         Stage 2               110      129       -        370     422       -       -          -       -        -          -       -

Approach                       EB                           WB                      NB                          SB
HCM Control Delay, s          76.7                     $ 1842.2                     5.3                         0.3
HCM LOS                          F                            F

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt                NBL      NBT       NBR EBLn1 EBLn2 WBLn1 WBLn2                 SBL      SBT       SBR
Capacity (veh/h)                        956       -          -   149   667      17  732              1118        -          -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.417       -          - 1.035 0.239 4.798 0.019               0.019       -          -
HCM Control Delay (s)                11.435       -          - 143.5  12.1 $ 2160.9  10              8.282       -          -
HCM Lane LOS                              B                        F     B        F   B                  A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                 2.086        -         - 7.941  0.93 10.881 0.059              0.058        -         -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




Project ID: 1401-02-02                                                                                                Synchro 8 Report
TADI                                                                                                                           Page 1
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                         2034 TWSC No Build
3: STH 60 & STH 16                                                                                                      PM Peak Hour



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh     382.4

Movement                       EBL     EBT     EBR       WBL     WBT     WBR      NBL         NBT    NBR      SBL        SBT     SBR
Vol, veh/h                      160      15     590        80      10      30      495         500     80       25        495     130
Conflicting Peds, #/hr            0       0       0         0       0       0        0           0      0        0          0       0
Sign Control                   Stop    Stop    Stop      Stop    Stop    Stop     Free        Free   Free     Free       Free    Free
RT Channelized                    -       -    None         -       -    None        -           -   None        -          -    None
Storage Length                    -       -      25         -       -      25      210           -    235      225          -     225
Veh in Median Storage, #          -       0       -         -       0       -        -           2      -        -          2       -
Grade, %                          -       0       -         -       0       -        -           0      -        -          0       -
Peak Hour Factor                 94      94      94        94      94      94       94          94     94       94         94      94
Heavy Vehicles, %                 7       7       7        14      14      14        8           8      8        7          7       7
Mvmt Flow                       170      16     628        85      11      32      527         532     85       27        527     138

Major/Minor                  Minor2                    Minor1                    Major1                      Major2
Conflicting Flow All           1904    2165     263     1909     2165     266      527          0       0      532          0       0
         Stage 1                580     580        -    1585     1585        -        -         -       -         -         -       -
         Stage 2               1324    1585        -      324     580        -        -         -       -         -         -       -
Follow-up Headway               3.57    4.07    3.37     3.64     4.14    3.44    2.28          -       -     2.27          -       -
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver        # 39       44    721      # 36       40    697      995          -       -      998          -       -
         Stage 1                455     486        -      100     148        -        -         -       -         -         -       -
         Stage 2              # 158     159        -      630     470        -        -         -       -         -         -       -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                                                                         -       -                   -       -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver        # 18      20     721       #2       18     697      995          -       -      998          -       -
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver        # 31      45       -      # 44      44       -        -          -       -        -          -       -
         Stage 1                214     473       -      # 47      70       -        -          -       -        -          -       -
         Stage 2               # 60      75       -      # 77     457       -        -          -       -        -          -       -

Approach                         EB                        WB                       NB                          SB
HCM Control Delay, s        $ 1202.1                   $ 599.8                      5.8                         0.3
HCM LOS                            F                         F

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt                 NBL     NBT      NBR EBLn1 EBLn2 WBLn1 WBLn2                  SBL      SBT       SBR
Capacity (veh/h)                         995      -         -      64  721      49  697                998       -          -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                     0.529      -         - 6.178    0.58 2.171 0.031              0.027       -          -
HCM Control Delay (s)                  12.61      -         - $ 2456.6 16.7 $ 717.7 10.3             8.706       -          -
HCM Lane LOS                               B                         F    C       F    B                 A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                  3.198       -        - 44.738 3.773 10.85 0.094               0.082        -         -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




Project ID: 1401-02-02                                                                                                Synchro 8 Report
TADI                                                                                                                           Page 1
                             APPENDIX C3


        TRAFFIC OPERATIONAL ANALYSIS

            FORECASTED TWSC ANALYSIS
                    (BUILD)

                       Construction Year 2014
                         Interim Year 2024
                         Design Year 2034




Traffic Analysis & Design, Inc.                 APPENDIX
HCM 2010 TWSC
3: STH 60 & STH 16                                                                                                              8/8/2013



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      3.1

Movement                      EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR      NBL         NBT    NBR      SBL        SBT       SBR
Vol, veh/h                      20        5      60       45       15      20       85         285     55       20        400        25
Conflicting Peds, #/hr           0        0       0        0        0       0        0           0      0        0          0         0
Sign Control                  Stop     Stop    Stop     Stop     Stop    Stop     Free        Free   Free     Free       Free      Free
RT Channelized                   -        -    None        -        -    None        -           -   None        -          -      None
Storage Length                   -        -     450        -        -     100      425           -    350      375          -       350
Veh in Median Storage, #         -        0       -        -        0       -        -           2      -        -          2         -
Grade, %                         -        0       -        -        0       -        -           0      -        -          0         -
Peak Hour Factor                94       94      94       94       94      94       94          94     94       94         94        94
Heavy Vehicles, %               23       23      23       31       31      31       12          12     12        9          9         9
Mvmt Flow                       21        5      64       48       16      21       90         303     59       21        426        27

Major/Minor                 Minor2                     Minor1                    Major1                      Major2
Conflicting Flow All           808     952      213       742    952      152      426          0       0      303          0         0
         Stage 1               468     468         -      484    484         -        -         -       -         -         -         -
         Stage 2               340     484         -      258    468         -        -         -       -         -         -         -
Follow-up Headway             3.73     4.23     3.53     3.81    4.31     3.61     2.32         -       -      2.29         -         -
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver        239     224      731       256    213      783     1062          -       -     1206          -         -
         Stage 1               493     510         -      464    483         -        -         -       -         -         -         -
         Stage 2               593     501         -      648    492         -        -         -       -         -         -         -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                                                                         -       -                   -         -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver        207      201     731        213    192     783     1062          -       -     1206          -         -
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver        361      358       -        352    323       -        -          -       -        -          -         -
         Stage 1               451      501       -        425    442       -        -          -       -        -          -         -
         Stage 2               509      459       -        575    483       -        -          -       -        -          -         -

Approach                        EB                         WB                       NB                          SB
HCM Control Delay, s            12                          16                      1.7                         0.4
HCM LOS                          B                           C

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt                NBL      NBT     NBR EBLn1 EBLn2 WBLn1 WBLn2                   SBL      SBT       SBR
Capacity (veh/h)                      1062        -        -   465   731   365   783                 1206        -          -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.085       -        - 0.103 0.058 0.194 0.018                 0.018       -          -
HCM Control Delay (s)                 8.705       -        -  13.6  10.2  17.2    9.7                8.039       -          -
HCM Lane LOS                              A                      B     B     C      A                    A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                 0.279        -       - 0.342 0.185  0.71 0.055                 0.054        -         -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




Project ID: 1401-02-02 7:15 am 7/23/2013 2014 TWSC Build                                                              Synchro 8 Report
TADI                                                                                                                           Page 1
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                                2014 TWSC Build
3: STH 60 & STH 16                                                                                                      PM Peak Hour



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh      5.1

Movement                      EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR      NBL         NBT    NBR      SBL        SBT     SBR
Vol, veh/h                      40       15     175       65        5      30      160         400     65       25        395      35
Conflicting Peds, #/hr           0        0       0        0        0       0        0           0      0        0          0       0
Sign Control                  Stop     Stop    Stop     Stop     Stop    Stop     Free        Free   Free     Free       Free    Free
RT Channelized                   -        -    None        -        -    None        -           -   None        -          -    None
Storage Length                   -        -     450        -        -     100      425           -    350      375          -     350
Veh in Median Storage, #         -        0       -        -        0       -        -           2      -        -          2       -
Grade, %                         -        0       -        -        0       -        -           0      -        -          0       -
Peak Hour Factor                94       94      94       94       94      94       94          94     94       94         94      94
Heavy Vehicles, %                7        7       7       14       14      14        8           8      8        7          7       7
Mvmt Flow                       43       16     186       69        5      32      170         426     69       27        420      37

Major/Minor                 Minor2                     Minor1                    Major1                      Major2
Conflicting Flow All         1029     1239      210     1037     1239     213      420          0       0      426          0       0
         Stage 1               473     473         -      766     766        -        -         -       -         -         -       -
         Stage 2               556     766         -      271     473        -        -         -       -         -         -       -
Follow-up Headway             3.57     4.07     3.37     3.64     4.14    3.44     2.28         -       -      2.27         -       -
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver        181     167      780       170     158     756     1094          -       -     1095          -       -
         Stage 1               528     544         -      336     382        -        -         -       -         -         -       -
         Stage 2               470     398         -      679     528        -        -         -       -         -         -       -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                                                                         -       -                   -       -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver        148      138     780      107      130     756     1094          -       -     1095          -       -
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver        289      274       -      223      252       -        -          -       -        -          -       -
         Stage 1               446      531       -      284      323       -        -          -       -        -          -       -
         Stage 2               374      336       -      489      515       -        -          -       -        -          -       -

Approach                       EB                         WB                        NB                          SB
HCM Control Delay, s          13.7                       23.7                       2.3                         0.5
HCM LOS                          B                         C

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt                NBL      NBT     NBR EBLn1 EBLn2 WBLn1 WBLn2                   SBL      SBT       SBR
Capacity (veh/h)                      1094        -        -   423   780   246   756                 1095        -          -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.156       -        - 0.285 0.159 0.346 0.028                 0.024       -          -
HCM Control Delay (s)                 8.896       -        -  16.9  10.5  27.2    9.9                8.369       -          -
HCM Lane LOS                              A                      C     B     D      A                    A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                  0.55        -       -  1.16 0.564 1.478 0.087                 0.075        -         -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




Project ID: 1401-02-02                                                                                                Synchro 8 Report
TADI                                                                                                                           Page 1
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                                2024 TWSC Build
3: STH 60 & STH 16                                                                                                      AM Peak Hour



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh     66.6

Movement                      EBL      EBT     EBR        WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL         NBT    NBR      SBL        SBT     SBR
Vol, veh/h                      65        5     215         50      15      20     365         320     60       20        455     110
Conflicting Peds, #/hr           0        0       0          0       0       0       0           0      0        0          0       0
Sign Control                  Stop     Stop    Stop       Stop    Stop    Stop    Free        Free   Free     Free       Free    Free
RT Channelized                   -        -    None          -       -    None       -           -   None        -          -    None
Storage Length                   -        -     450          -       -     100     425           -    350      375          -     350
Veh in Median Storage, #         -        0       -          -       0       -       -           2      -        -          2       -
Grade, %                         -        0       -          -       0       -       -           0      -        -          0       -
Peak Hour Factor                94       94      94         94      94      94      94          94     94       94         94      94
Heavy Vehicles, %               23       23      23         31      31      31      12          12     12        9          9       9
Mvmt Flow                       69        5     229         53      16      21     388         340     64       21        484     117

Major/Minor                 Minor2                      Minor1                   Major1                      Major2
Conflicting Flow All         1482     1644      242      1404     1644    170      484          0       0      340          0       0
         Stage 1               527     527         -     1117     1117       -        -         -       -         -         -       -
         Stage 2               955    1117         -       287     527       -        -         -       -         -         -       -
Follow-up Headway             3.73     4.23     3.53      3.81     4.31   3.61    2.32          -       -     2.29          -       -
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver         71       80     699         76       74   760     1008          -       -     1167          -       -
         Stage 1               452     477         -       177     227       -        -         -       -         -         -       -
         Stage 2               240     240         -       621     460       -        -         -       -         -         -       -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                                                                         -       -                   -       -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver       # 39       48     699       # 34      45     760    1008          -       -     1167          -       -
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver         97      118       -       # 18      60       -       -          -       -        -          -       -
         Stage 1               278      468       -        109     140       -       -          -       -        -          -       -
         Stage 2               127      148       -        406     452       -       -          -       -        -          -       -

Approach                       EB                           WB                      NB                          SB
HCM Control Delay, s          50.7                     $ 1113.5                     5.3                         0.3
HCM LOS                          F                            F

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt                NBL      NBT       NBR EBLn1 EBLn2 WBLn1 WBLn2                 SBL      SBT       SBR
Capacity (veh/h)                      1008        -          -   174   699       24   760            1167        -          -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.385       -          - 0.866 0.218 3.177 0.019               0.018       -          -
HCM Control Delay (s)                10.791       -          -  90.3  11.6 $ 1318.8   9.8            8.142       -          -
HCM Lane LOS                              B                        F     B        F     A                A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                 1.836        -         - 6.202 0.827     9.53 0.057            0.056        -         -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




Project ID: 1401-02-02                                                                                                Synchro 8 Report
TADI                                                                                                                           Page 1
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                                2024 TWSC Build
3: STH 60 & STH 16                                                                                                      PM Peak Hour



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh    278.7

Movement                      EBL      EBT     EBR       WBL     WBT     WBR      NBL         NBT    NBR      SBL        SBT     SBR
Vol, veh/h                     160       15     570        75      10      30      480         445     70       25        440     130
Conflicting Peds, #/hr           0        0       0         0       0       0        0           0      0        0          0       0
Sign Control                  Stop     Stop    Stop      Stop    Stop    Stop     Free        Free   Free     Free       Free    Free
RT Channelized                   -        -    None         -       -    None        -           -   None        -          -    None
Storage Length                   -        -     450         -       -     100      425           -    350      375          -     350
Veh in Median Storage, #         -        0       -         -       0       -        -           2      -        -          2       -
Grade, %                         -        0       -         -       0       -        -           0      -        -          0       -
Peak Hour Factor                94       94      94        94      94      94       94          94     94       94         94      94
Heavy Vehicles, %                7        7       7        14      14      14        8           8      8        7          7       7
Mvmt Flow                      170       16     606        80      11      32      511         473     74       27        468     138

Major/Minor                 Minor2                     Minor1                    Major1                      Major2
Conflicting Flow All         1784      2016     234     1790     2016     237      468          0       0      473          0       0
         Stage 1               521      521        -    1495     1495        -        -         -       -         -         -       -
         Stage 2             1263      1495        -      295     521        -        -         -       -         -         -       -
Follow-up Headway             3.57      4.07    3.37     3.64     4.14    3.44     2.28         -       -      2.27         -       -
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver       # 49        55    753      # 45       50    729     1049          -       -     1051          -       -
         Stage 1               494      517        -      115     165        -        -         -       -         -         -       -
         Stage 2               172      176        -      656     501        -        -         -       -         -         -       -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                                                                         -       -                   -       -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver       # 10       27     753       #4       25     729     1049          -       -     1051          -       -
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver       # 44       60       -      # 55      13       -        -          -       -        -          -       -
         Stage 1               253      504       -      # 59      85       -        -          -       -        -          -       -
         Stage 2              # 74       90       -       121     488       -        -          -       -        -          -       -

Approach                        EB                         WB                       NB                          SB
HCM Control Delay, s        $ 807.7                    $ 654.9                      5.6                         0.4
HCM LOS                           F                          F

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt                 NBL     NBT      NBR EBLn1 EBLn2 WBLn1 WBLn2                  SBL      SBT       SBR
Capacity (veh/h)                       1049       -         -      88  753      44  729              1051        -          -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                     0.487      -         - 4.412 0.537 2.297 0.029                0.025       -          -
HCM Control Delay (s)                 11.642      -         - $ 1632.7 15.2 $ 790.6 10.1             8.514       -          -
HCM Lane LOS                               B                         F   C        F    B                 A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                  2.734       -        - 41.082 3.237 10.681   0.09             0.078        -         -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




Project ID: 1401-02-02                                                                                                Synchro 8 Report
TADI                                                                                                                           Page 1
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                                2034 TWSC Build
3: STH 60 & STH 16                                                                                                      AM Peak Hour



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh    105.4

Movement                      EBL      EBT     EBR        WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL         NBT    NBR      SBL        SBT     SBR
Vol, veh/h                      65        5     225         55      15      20     375         365     65       20        510     110
Conflicting Peds, #/hr           0        0       0          0       0       0       0           0      0        0          0       0
Sign Control                  Stop     Stop    Stop       Stop    Stop    Stop    Free        Free   Free     Free       Free    Free
RT Channelized                   -        -    None          -       -    None       -           -   None        -          -    None
Storage Length                   -        -     450          -       -     100     425           -    350      375          -     350
Veh in Median Storage, #         -        0       -          -       0       -       -           2      -        -          2       -
Grade, %                         -        0       -          -       0       -       -           0      -        -          0       -
Peak Hour Factor                94       94      94         94      94      94      94          94     94       94         94      94
Heavy Vehicles, %               23       23      23         31      31      31      12          12     12        9          9       9
Mvmt Flow                       69        5     239         59      16      21     399         388     69       21        543     117

Major/Minor                 Minor2                      Minor1                   Major1                      Major2
Conflicting Flow All         1585     1771      271      1502     1771    194      543          0       0      388          0       0
         Stage 1               585     585         -     1186     1186       -        -         -       -         -         -       -
         Stage 2             1000     1186         -       316     585       -        -         -       -         -         -       -
Follow-up Headway             3.73     4.23     3.53      3.81     4.31   3.61    2.32          -       -      2.29         -       -
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver       # 59       66     667         64       61   732      956          -       -     1118          -       -
         Stage 1               415     447         -       159     208       -        -         -       -         -         -       -
         Stage 2               224     221         -       595     430       -        -         -       -         -         -       -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                                                                         -       -                   -       -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver       # 17       38     667       # 26      35     732     956          -       -     1118          -       -
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver         80      101       -       # 14      22       -       -          -       -        -          -       -
         Stage 1               242      439       -         93     121       -       -          -       -        -          -       -
         Stage 2               110      129       -        370     422       -       -          -       -        -          -       -

Approach                       EB                           WB                      NB                          SB
HCM Control Delay, s          76.7                     $ 1842.2                     5.3                         0.3
HCM LOS                          F                            F

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt                NBL      NBT       NBR EBLn1 EBLn2 WBLn1 WBLn2                 SBL      SBT       SBR
Capacity (veh/h)                        956       -          -   149   667      17  732              1118        -          -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                    0.417       -          - 1.035 0.239 4.798 0.019               0.019       -          -
HCM Control Delay (s)                11.435       -          - 143.5  12.1 $ 2160.9  10              8.282       -          -
HCM Lane LOS                              B                        F     B        F   B                  A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                 2.086        -         - 7.941  0.93 10.881 0.059              0.058        -         -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




Project ID: 1401-02-02                                                                                                Synchro 8 Report
TADI                                                                                                                           Page 1
HCM 2010 TWSC                                                                                                2034 TWSC Build
3: STH 60 & STH 16                                                                                                      PM Peak Hour



Intersection
Intersection Delay, s/veh     382.4

Movement                       EBL     EBT     EBR       WBL     WBT     WBR      NBL         NBT    NBR      SBL        SBT     SBR
Vol, veh/h                      160      15     590        80      10      30      495         500     80       25        495     130
Conflicting Peds, #/hr            0       0       0         0       0       0        0           0      0        0          0       0
Sign Control                   Stop    Stop    Stop      Stop    Stop    Stop     Free        Free   Free     Free       Free    Free
RT Channelized                    -       -    None         -       -    None        -           -   None        -          -    None
Storage Length                    -       -     450         -       -     100      425           -    350      375          -     350
Veh in Median Storage, #          -       0       -         -       0       -        -           2      -        -          2       -
Grade, %                          -       0       -         -       0       -        -           0      -        -          0       -
Peak Hour Factor                 94      94      94        94      94      94       94          94     94       94         94      94
Heavy Vehicles, %                 7       7       7        14      14      14        8           8      8        7          7       7
Mvmt Flow                       170      16     628        85      11      32      527         532     85       27        527     138

Major/Minor                  Minor2                    Minor1                    Major1                      Major2
Conflicting Flow All           1904    2165     263     1909     2165     266      527          0       0      532          0       0
         Stage 1                580     580        -    1585     1585        -        -         -       -         -         -       -
         Stage 2               1324    1585        -      324     580        -        -         -       -         -         -       -
Follow-up Headway               3.57    4.07    3.37     3.64     4.14    3.44    2.28          -       -     2.27          -       -
Pot Capacity-1 Maneuver        # 39       44    721      # 36       40    697      995          -       -      998          -       -
         Stage 1                455     486        -      100     148        -        -         -       -         -         -       -
         Stage 2              # 158     159        -      630     470        -        -         -       -         -         -       -
Time blocked-Platoon, %                                                                         -       -                   -       -
Mov Capacity-1 Maneuver        # 18      20     721       #2       18     697      995          -       -      998          -       -
Mov Capacity-2 Maneuver        # 31      45       -      # 44      44       -        -          -       -        -          -       -
         Stage 1                214     473       -      # 47      70       -        -          -       -        -          -       -
         Stage 2               # 60      75       -      # 77     457       -        -          -       -        -          -       -

Approach                         EB                        WB                       NB                          SB
HCM Control Delay, s        $ 1202.1                   $ 599.8                      5.8                         0.3
HCM LOS                            F                         F

Minor Lane / Major Mvmt                 NBL     NBT      NBR EBLn1 EBLn2 WBLn1 WBLn2                  SBL      SBT       SBR
Capacity (veh/h)                         995      -         -      64  721      49  697                998       -          -
HCM Lane V/C Ratio                     0.529      -         - 6.178    0.58 2.171 0.031              0.027       -          -
HCM Control Delay (s)                  12.61      -         - $ 2456.6 16.7 $ 717.7 10.3             8.706       -          -
HCM Lane LOS                               B                         F    C       F    B                 A
HCM 95th %tile Q(veh)                  3.198       -        - 44.738 3.773 10.85 0.094               0.082        -         -
Notes
~ : Volume Exceeds Capacity; $ : Delay Exceeds 300 Seconds; Error : Computation Not Defined




Project ID: 1401-02-02                                                                                                Synchro 8 Report
TADI                                                                                                                           Page 1
                             APPENDIX C4


        TRAFFIC OPERATIONAL ANALYSIS

 FORECASTED TRAFFIC SIGNAL ANALYSIS

                       Construction Year 2014
                         Interim Year 2024
                         Design Year 2034




Traffic Analysis & Design, Inc.                 APPENDIX
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary                                                                          2014 Signal
3: STH 60 & STH 16                                                                                                  AM Peak Hour




Movement                      EBL     EBT     EBR     WBL      WBT     WBR       NBL     NBT    NBR       SBL        SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                  20      5        60       45     15        20      85    285        55       20       400       25
Number                           7      4        14        3      8        18       5      2        12        1         6       16
Initial Q (Qb), veh              0      0         0        0      0         0       0      0         0        0         0        0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)           1.00            1.00     1.00              1.00    1.00             1.00     1.00               1.00
Parking Bus Adj               1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00
Adj Sat Flow veh/h/ln        154.5   154.5   190.0    145.0    145.0   190.0    169.6   169.6   169.6    174.3      174.3   174.3
Lanes                            1       1        0        1       1        0       1       2        1        1         2        1
Cap, veh/h                     468      23     298      425      138     181      545    1543     656      610       1585     674
Arrive On Green               0.24    0.24    0.24     0.24     0.24    0.24     0.45    0.45    0.45     0.45       0.45    0.45
Sat Flow, veh/h              1132       96    1231     1033      570     748      862    3393    1442      977       3486    1482
Grp Volume(v), veh/h            21       0       69       48       0       37      90     303       29       21       426       13
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln     1132        0   1327     1033         0    1318     862     1696    1442      977       1743    1482
Q Serve(g_s), s                0.5     0.0      1.4      1.3     0.0      0.7     2.4     1.8      0.4      0.4       2.5      0.2
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s          1.2     0.0      1.4      2.7     0.0      0.7     4.9     1.8      0.4      2.2       2.5      0.2
Prop In Lane                  1.00            0.93     1.00              0.57    1.00             1.00     1.00               1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h        468        0     321      425        0     319     545    1543      656      610      1585      674
V/C Ratio(X)                  0.04    0.00     0.21     0.11    0.00     0.12    0.17    0.20     0.04     0.03      0.27     0.02
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h         811        0     724      739        0     719     989    3291     1399     1114      3382     1437
HCM Platoon Ratio             1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00      1.00    1.00      1.00      1.00
Upstream Filter(I)            1.00    0.00    1.00     1.00     0.00    1.00     1.00   1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh      10.2     0.0    10.0     11.1      0.0      9.7     7.1     5.4      5.0      6.0       5.6      4.9
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh         0.0     0.0      0.3      0.1     0.0      0.2     0.1     0.1      0.0      0.0       0.1      0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
%ile Back of Q (95%), veh/ln   0.2     0.0      0.5      0.4     0.0      0.3     0.7     0.9      0.2      0.1       0.8      0.0
Lane Grp Delay (d), s/veh     10.3     0.0    10.3     11.2      0.0      9.9     7.2     5.4      5.0      6.1       5.7      5.0
Lane Grp LOS                     B                B        B                A       A       A        A        A         A        A
Approach Vol, veh/h                    90                        85                      422                         460
Approach Delay, s/veh                 10.3                      10.6                      5.8                         5.7
Approach LOS                             B                         B                        A                           A
Timer
Assigned Phs                             4                         8                        2                           6
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s              13.0                      13.0                     20.0                        20.0
Change Period (Y+Rc), s                5.0                       5.0                      5.0                         5.0
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s           18.0                      18.0                     32.0                        32.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s           3.4                       4.7                      6.9                         4.5
Green Ext Time (p_c), s                0.5                       0.5                      5.2                         5.3
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay                            6.5
HCM 2010 LOS                                     A
Notes




Project ID: 1401-02-02                                                                                            Synchro 8 Report
TADI                                                                                                                       Page 1
Timing Report, Sorted By Phase                                  2014 Signal
3: STH 60 & STH 16                                                AM Peak Hour



Phase Number                    2       4        6        8
Movement                     NBTL    EBTL     SBTL     WBTL
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize
Recall Mode                   Min     None      Min     None
Maximum Split (s)               37       23       37       23
Maximum Split (%)           61.7%    38.3%    61.7%    38.3%
Minimum Split (s)               20       15       20       15
Yellow Time (s)                  4        4        4        4
All-Red Time (s)                 1        1        1        1
Minimum Initial (s)             15       10       15       10
Vehicle Extension (s)            3        3        3        3
Minimum Gap (s)                  3        3        3        3
Time Before Reduce (s)           0        0        0        0
Time To Reduce (s)               0        0        0        0
Walk Time (s)
Flash Dont Walk (s)
Dual Entry                    Yes      Yes      Yes      Yes
Inhibit Max                   Yes      Yes      Yes      Yes
Start Time (s)                  0       37        0       37
End Time (s)                   37        0       37        0
Yield/Force Off (s)            32       55       32       55
Yield/Force Off 170(s)         32       55       32       55
Local Start Time (s)            0       37        0       37
Local Yield (s)                32       55       32       55
Local Yield 170(s)             32       55       32       55
Intersection Summary
Cycle Length                                     60
Control Type                 Actuated-Uncoordinated
Natural Cycle                                    40

Splits and Phases:   3: STH 60 & STH 16




Project ID: 1401-02-02                                          Synchro 8 Report
TADI                                                                     Page 2
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary                                                                        2014 Signal
3: STH 60 & STH 16                                                                                                PM Peak Hour




Movement                      EBL     EBT    EBR     WBL      WBT     WBR       NBL     NBT    NBR       SBL       SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                  40     15      175       65      5        30     160    400        65      25       395        35
Number                           7      4       14        3      8        18       5      2        12       1         6        16
Initial Q (Qb), veh              0      0        0        0      0         0       0      0         0       0         0         0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)           1.00            1.00    1.00              1.00    1.00             1.00    1.00                1.00
Parking Bus Adj               1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00
Adj Sat Flow veh/h/ln        177.6   177.6   190.0   166.7    166.7   190.0    175.9   175.9   175.9    177.6     177.6    177.6
Lanes                            1       1       0        1       1        0       1       2        1       1          2        1
Cap, veh/h                     529      33     381     370       53     339      537    1581     672      531      1596      678
Arrive On Green               0.27    0.27    0.27    0.27     0.27    0.27     0.45    0.45    0.45     0.45      0.45     0.45
Sat Flow, veh/h              1302     121    1407     1052     195     1251     894     3519    1495     884       3551     1509
Grp Volume(v), veh/h            43       0    202        69       0       37    170      426       35      27       420        19
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln     1302        0   1527    1052         0    1446     894     1759    1495     884       1776     1509
Q Serve(g_s), s                0.9     0.0     4.0      2.1     0.0      0.7     5.2     2.7      0.5     0.7        2.6      0.3
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s          1.6     0.0     4.0      6.1     0.0      0.7     7.9     2.7      0.5     3.4       2.6       0.3
Prop In Lane                  1.00            0.92    1.00              0.86    1.00             1.00    1.00                1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h        529        0    414      370        0     392     537    1581      672     531      1596       678
V/C Ratio(X)                  0.08    0.00    0.49     0.19    0.00     0.09    0.32    0.27     0.05    0.05      0.26      0.03
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h         868        0     811     643        0     768     910    3049     1296     900      3078      1308
HCM Platoon Ratio             1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00       1.00
Upstream Filter(I)            1.00    0.00    1.00    1.00     0.00    1.00     1.00   1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh      10.4     0.0    11.0    13.5      0.0      9.8     8.6     6.2      5.6     7.2       6.1       5.5
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh         0.1     0.0     0.9      0.2     0.0      0.1     0.3     0.1      0.0     0.0       0.1       0.0
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0       0.0
%ile Back of Q (95%), veh/ln   0.4     0.0     2.0      0.8     0.0      0.3     1.7     1.5      0.2     0.2       1.1       0.1
Lane Grp Delay (d), s/veh     10.4     0.0    11.8    13.7      0.0      9.9     8.9     6.3      5.6     7.3       6.2       5.5
Lane Grp LOS                     B               B        B                A       A       A        A       A         A         A
Approach Vol, veh/h                   245                      106                      631                        466
Approach Delay, s/veh                 11.6                     12.4                      6.9                        6.3
Approach LOS                             B                        B                        A                          A
Timer
Assigned Phs                             4                        8                        2                          6
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s              14.7                     14.7                     21.1                       21.1
Change Period (Y+Rc), s                5.0                      5.0                      5.0                        5.0
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s           19.0                     19.0                     31.0                       31.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s           6.0                      8.1                      9.9                        5.4
Green Ext Time (p_c), s                1.3                      1.2                      6.2                        6.6
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay                            7.9
HCM 2010 LOS                                     A
Notes




Project ID: 1401-02-02                                                                                          Synchro 8 Report
TADI                                                                                                                     Page 1
Timing Report, Sorted By Phase                                  2014 Signal
3: STH 60 & STH 16                                                PM Peak Hour



Phase Number                    2       4        6        8
Movement                     NBTL    EBTL     SBTL     WBTL
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize
Recall Mode                   Min     None      Min     None
Maximum Split (s)               36       24       36       24
Maximum Split (%)           60.0%    40.0%    60.0%    40.0%
Minimum Split (s)               20       15       20       15
Yellow Time (s)                  4        4        4        4
All-Red Time (s)                 1        1        1        1
Minimum Initial (s)             15       10       15       10
Vehicle Extension (s)            3        3        3        3
Minimum Gap (s)                  3        3        3        3
Time Before Reduce (s)           0        0        0        0
Time To Reduce (s)               0        0        0        0
Walk Time (s)
Flash Dont Walk (s)
Dual Entry                    Yes      Yes      Yes      Yes
Inhibit Max                   Yes      Yes      Yes      Yes
Start Time (s)                  0       36        0       36
End Time (s)                   36        0       36        0
Yield/Force Off (s)            31       55       31       55
Yield/Force Off 170(s)         31       55       31       55
Local Start Time (s)            0       36        0       36
Local Yield (s)                31       55       31       55
Local Yield 170(s)             31       55       31       55
Intersection Summary
Cycle Length                                     60
Control Type                 Actuated-Uncoordinated
Natural Cycle                                    40

Splits and Phases:   3: STH 60 & STH 16




Project ID: 1401-02-02                                          Synchro 8 Report
TADI                                                                     Page 2
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary                                                                        2024 Signal
3: STH 60 & STH 16                                                                                                AM Peak Hour




Movement                      EBL     EBT    EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR       NBL      NBT    NBR       SBL       SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                  65      5      215      50     15        20     365     320        60      20       455      110
Number                           7      4       14       3      8        18        5      2        12       1         6        16
Initial Q (Qb), veh              0      0        0       0      0         0        0      0         0       0         0         0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)           1.00            1.00    1.00             1.00     1.00             1.00    1.00                1.00
Parking Bus Adj               1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00
Adj Sat Flow veh/h/ln        154.5   154.5   154.5   145.0   145.0   190.0    169.6    169.6   169.6    174.3     174.3    174.3
Lanes                            1       1       1       1       1        0        1       2        1       1          2        1
Cap, veh/h                     354    314      267     348    116      152      636     1996     848     444       1090      463
Arrive On Green               0.20    0.20    0.20    0.20    0.20    0.20     0.20     0.59    0.59     0.31      0.31     0.31
Sat Flow, veh/h              1132    1545    1313      987    570      748     1616     3393    1442     942       3486     1482
Grp Volume(v), veh/h            69       5     114      53       0       37     388      340       32      21       484        59
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln     1132    1545    1313     987        0    1318     1616     1696    1442     942       1743     1482
Q Serve(g_s), s                2.6     0.1     3.6     2.2     0.0      1.1      6.7     2.2      0.4     0.8        5.3      1.4
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s          3.7     0.1     3.6     2.3     0.0      1.1      6.7     2.2      0.4     0.8       5.3       1.4
Prop In Lane                  1.00            1.00    1.00             0.57     1.00             1.00    1.00                1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h        354     314     267     348        0     268      636    1996      848     444      1090       463
V/C Ratio(X)                  0.19    0.02    0.43    0.15    0.00     0.14     0.61    0.17     0.04    0.05      0.44      0.13
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h         454     451     383     436        0     385     1066    3253     1382     543      1453       618
HCM Platoon Ratio             1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00      1.00
Upstream Filter(I)            1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    0.00    1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh      17.2    15.3    16.7    16.2     0.0    15.7       7.3     4.5      4.2    11.6     13.2      11.8
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh         0.3     0.0     1.1     0.2     0.0      0.2      1.0     0.0      0.0     0.0       0.3       0.1
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0       0.0
%ile Back of Q (95%), veh/ln   1.1     0.1     1.8     0.8     0.0      0.5      3.8     1.2      0.2     0.2       3.1       0.7
Lane Grp Delay (d), s/veh     17.4    15.3    17.8    16.4     0.0    15.9       8.3     4.6      4.2    11.6     13.4      11.9
Lane Grp LOS                     B       B       B       B                B        A       A        A       B         B         B
Approach Vol, veh/h                    188                     90                        760                        564
Approach Delay, s/veh                 17.6                    16.2                       6.4                       13.2
Approach LOS                             B                       B                         A                          B
Timer
Assigned Phs                             4                       8                5        2                          6
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s              14.8                    14.8             13.2     33.2                       20.0
Change Period (Y+Rc), s                5.0                     5.0              3.5      5.0                        5.0
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s           14.0                    14.0             22.5     46.0                       20.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s           5.7                     4.3              8.7      4.2                        7.3
Green Ext Time (p_c), s                0.6                     0.6              1.1      6.3                        4.4
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay                           10.7
HCM 2010 LOS                                     B
Notes




Project ID: 1401-02-02                                                                                          Synchro 8 Report
TADI                                                                                                                     Page 1
Timing Report, Sorted By Phase                                           2024 Signal
3: STH 60 & STH 16                                                         AM Peak Hour



Phase Number                    2       4         5       6        8
Movement                     NBTL    EBTL      NBL     SBTL     WBTL
Lead/Lag                                       Lead     Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize
Recall Mode                   Min     None     None      Min     None
Maximum Split (s)               51       19       26       25       19
Maximum Split (%)           72.9%    27.1%    37.1%    35.7%    27.1%
Minimum Split (s)               20       15      9.5       20       15
Yellow Time (s)                  4        4      3.5        4        4
All-Red Time (s)                 1        1        0        1        1
Minimum Initial (s)             15       10        6       15       10
Vehicle Extension (s)            3        3        3        3        3
Minimum Gap (s)                  3        3        3        3        3
Time Before Reduce (s)           0        0        0        0        0
Time To Reduce (s)               0        0        0        0        0
Walk Time (s)
Flash Dont Walk (s)
Dual Entry                    Yes      Yes      No       Yes      Yes
Inhibit Max                   Yes      Yes     Yes       Yes      Yes
Start Time (s)                  0       51        0       26       51
End Time (s)                   51        0      26        51        0
Yield/Force Off (s)            46       65     22.5       46       65
Yield/Force Off 170(s)         46       65     22.5       46       65
Local Start Time (s)           44       25      44         0       25
Local Yield (s)                20       39     66.5       20       39
Local Yield 170(s)             20       39     66.5       20       39
Intersection Summary
Cycle Length                                     70
Control Type                 Actuated-Uncoordinated
Natural Cycle                                    50

Splits and Phases:   3: STH 60 & STH 16




Project ID: 1401-02-02                                                   Synchro 8 Report
TADI                                                                              Page 2
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary                                                                        2024 Signal
3: STH 60 & STH 16                                                                                                PM Peak Hour




Movement                      EBL     EBT    EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR       NBL      NBT    NBR       SBL       SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                 160     15      570      75     10        30     480     445        70      25       440     130
Number                           7      4       14       3      8        18        5      2        12       1         6       16
Initial Q (Qb), veh              0      0        0       0      0         0        0      0         0       0         0        0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)           1.00            1.00    1.00             1.00     1.00             1.00    1.00               1.00
Parking Bus Adj               1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00
Adj Sat Flow veh/h/ln        177.6   177.6   177.6   166.7   166.7   190.0    175.9    175.9   175.9    177.6     177.6   177.6
Lanes                            1       1       1       1       1        0        1       2        1       1         2        1
Cap, veh/h                     417    439      373     354      93     271      673     2031     863      350       937     398
Arrive On Green               0.25    0.25    0.25    0.25    0.25    0.25     0.25     0.58    0.58     0.26      0.26    0.26
Sat Flow, veh/h              1295    1776    1509      945    377     1096     1675     3519    1495      845      3551    1509
Grp Volume(v), veh/h          170       16    303       80       0       43     511      473       37      27       468       69
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln     1295    1776    1509     945        0    1473     1675     1759    1495     845       1776    1509
Q Serve(g_s), s                6.7     0.4    10.8     4.0     0.0      1.3     11.2     3.7      0.6     1.4       6.4      2.0
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s          8.0     0.4    10.8     4.4     0.0      1.3    11.2      3.7      0.6     1.4       6.4      2.0
Prop In Lane                  1.00            1.00    1.00             0.74     1.00             1.00    1.00               1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h        417     439     373     354        0     364      673    2031      863     350       937      398
V/C Ratio(X)                  0.41    0.04    0.81    0.23    0.00     0.12     0.76    0.23     0.04    0.08      0.50     0.17
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h         553     625     531     453        0     518      855    2476     1052     364      1000      425
HCM Platoon Ratio             1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00     1.00
Upstream Filter(I)            1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    0.00    1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh      19.7    16.3    20.2    17.9     0.0    16.6       9.7     5.9      5.2    15.9     17.7     16.1
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh         0.6     0.0     6.4     0.3     0.0      0.1      3.0     0.1      0.0     0.1       0.4      0.2
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0
%ile Back of Q (95%), veh/ln   3.4     0.3     7.2     1.5     0.0      0.7      7.4     2.4      0.3     0.4       4.2      1.1
Lane Grp Delay (d), s/veh     20.3    16.3    26.5    18.3     0.0    16.7     12.8      5.9      5.2    16.0     18.2     16.3
Lane Grp LOS                     C       B       C       B                B        B       A        A       B         B        B
Approach Vol, veh/h                    489                    123                      1021                         564
Approach Delay, s/veh                 24.0                    17.7                       9.3                       17.8
Approach LOS                             C                       B                         A                          B
Timer
Assigned Phs                             4                       8                5        2                          6
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s              19.0                    19.0             17.8     37.8                       20.0
Change Period (Y+Rc), s                5.0                     5.0              3.5      5.0                        5.0
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s           20.0                    20.0             20.5     40.0                       16.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s          12.8                     6.4             13.2      5.7                        8.4
Green Ext Time (p_c), s                1.3                     1.7              1.1      7.4                        3.7
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay                           15.3
HCM 2010 LOS                                     B
Notes




Project ID: 1401-02-02                                                                                          Synchro 8 Report
TADI                                                                                                                     Page 1
Timing Report, Sorted By Phase                                           2024 Signal
3: STH 60 & STH 16                                                         PM Peak Hour



Phase Number                    2       4         5       6        8
Movement                     NBTL    EBTL      NBL     SBTL     WBTL
Lead/Lag                                       Lead     Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize
Recall Mode                   Min     None     None      Min     None
Maximum Split (s)               45       25       24       21       25
Maximum Split (%)           64.3%    35.7%    34.3%    30.0%    35.7%
Minimum Split (s)               20       15      9.5       20       15
Yellow Time (s)                  4        4      3.5        4        4
All-Red Time (s)                 1        1        0        1        1
Minimum Initial (s)             15       10        6       15       10
Vehicle Extension (s)            3        3        3        3        3
Minimum Gap (s)                  3        3        3        3        3
Time Before Reduce (s)           0        0        0        0        0
Time To Reduce (s)               0        0        0        0        0
Walk Time (s)
Flash Dont Walk (s)
Dual Entry                    Yes      Yes      No       Yes      Yes
Inhibit Max                   Yes      Yes     Yes       Yes      Yes
Start Time (s)                  0       45        0       24       45
End Time (s)                   45        0      24        45        0
Yield/Force Off (s)            40       65     20.5       40       65
Yield/Force Off 170(s)         40       65     20.5       40       65
Local Start Time (s)           46       21      46         0       21
Local Yield (s)                16       41     66.5       16       41
Local Yield 170(s)             16       41     66.5       16       41
Intersection Summary
Cycle Length                                     70
Control Type                 Actuated-Uncoordinated
Natural Cycle                                    60

Splits and Phases:   3: STH 60 & STH 16




Project ID: 1401-02-02                                                   Synchro 8 Report
TADI                                                                              Page 2
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary                                                                        2034 Signal
3: STH 60 & STH 16                                                                                                AM Peak Hour




Movement                      EBL     EBT    EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR       NBL      NBT    NBR       SBL       SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                  65      5      225      55     15        20     375     365        65      20       510      110
Number                           7      4       14       3      8        18        5      2        12       1         6        16
Initial Q (Qb), veh              0      0        0       0      0         0        0      0         0       0         0         0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)           1.00            1.00    1.00             1.00     1.00             1.00    1.00                1.00
Parking Bus Adj               1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00
Adj Sat Flow veh/h/ln        154.5   154.5   154.5   145.0   145.0   190.0    169.6    169.6   169.6    174.3     174.3    174.3
Lanes                            1       1       1       1       1        0        1       2        1       1          2        1
Cap, veh/h                     352    313      266     345    116      152      620     2003     851     428       1082      460
Arrive On Green               0.20    0.20    0.20    0.20    0.20    0.20     0.21     0.59    0.59     0.31      0.31     0.31
Sat Flow, veh/h              1132    1545    1313      982    570      748     1616     3393    1442     899       3486     1482
Grp Volume(v), veh/h            69       5     120      59       0       37     399      388       35      21       543        59
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln     1132    1545    1313     982        0    1318     1616     1696    1442     899       1743     1482
Q Serve(g_s), s                2.6     0.1     3.9     2.5     0.0      1.1      7.0     2.6      0.5     0.8        6.1      1.4
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s          3.7     0.1     3.9     2.6     0.0      1.1      7.0     2.6      0.5     0.8       6.1       1.4
Prop In Lane                  1.00            1.00    1.00             0.57     1.00             1.00    1.00                1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h        352     313     266     345        0     267      620    2003      851     428      1082       460
V/C Ratio(X)                  0.20    0.02    0.45    0.17    0.00     0.14     0.64    0.19     0.04    0.05      0.50      0.13
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h         451     447     380     431        0     382     1037    3230     1373     521      1443       613
HCM Platoon Ratio             1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00      1.00
Upstream Filter(I)            1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    0.00    1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh      17.3    15.4    16.9    16.4     0.0    15.8       7.7     4.6      4.2    11.8     13.6      12.0
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh         0.3     0.0     1.2     0.2     0.0      0.2      1.1     0.0      0.0     0.0       0.4       0.1
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0       0.0
%ile Back of Q (95%), veh/ln   1.1     0.1     2.0     0.9     0.0      0.5      3.9     1.4      0.2     0.3       3.8       0.7
Lane Grp Delay (d), s/veh     17.6    15.4    18.1    16.7     0.0    16.0       8.8     4.6      4.2    11.8     14.0      12.1
Lane Grp LOS                     B       B       B       B                B        A       A        A       B         B         B
Approach Vol, veh/h                    194                     96                        822                        623
Approach Delay, s/veh                 17.8                    16.4                       6.7                       13.7
Approach LOS                             B                       B                         A                          B
Timer
Assigned Phs                             4                       8                5        2                          6
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s              14.8                    14.8             13.5     33.5                       20.0
Change Period (Y+Rc), s                5.0                     5.0              3.5      5.0                        5.0
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s           14.0                    14.0             22.5     46.0                       20.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s           5.9                     4.6              9.0      4.6                        8.1
Green Ext Time (p_c), s                0.6                     0.6              1.1      7.3                        4.8
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay                           11.0
HCM 2010 LOS                                     B
Notes




Project ID: 1401-02-02                                                                                          Synchro 8 Report
TADI                                                                                                                     Page 1
Timing Report, Sorted By Phase                                           2034 Signal
3: STH 60 & STH 16                                                         AM Peak Hour



Phase Number                    2       4         5       6        8
Movement                     NBTL    EBTL      NBL     SBTL     WBTL
Lead/Lag                                       Lead     Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize
Recall Mode                   Min     None     None      Min     None
Maximum Split (s)               51       19       26       25       19
Maximum Split (%)           72.9%    27.1%    37.1%    35.7%    27.1%
Minimum Split (s)               20       15      9.5       20       15
Yellow Time (s)                  4        4      3.5        4        4
All-Red Time (s)                 1        1        0        1        1
Minimum Initial (s)             15       10        6       15       10
Vehicle Extension (s)            3        3        3        3        3
Minimum Gap (s)                  3        3        3        3        3
Time Before Reduce (s)           0        0        0        0        0
Time To Reduce (s)               0        0        0        0        0
Walk Time (s)
Flash Dont Walk (s)
Dual Entry                    Yes      Yes      No       Yes      Yes
Inhibit Max                   Yes      Yes     Yes       Yes      Yes
Start Time (s)                  0       51        0       26       51
End Time (s)                   51        0      26        51        0
Yield/Force Off (s)            46       65     22.5       46       65
Yield/Force Off 170(s)         46       65     22.5       46       65
Local Start Time (s)           44       25      44         0       25
Local Yield (s)                20       39     66.5       20       39
Local Yield 170(s)             20       39     66.5       20       39
Intersection Summary
Cycle Length                                     70
Control Type                 Actuated-Uncoordinated
Natural Cycle                                    50

Splits and Phases:   3: STH 60 & STH 16




Project ID: 1401-02-02                                                   Synchro 8 Report
TADI                                                                              Page 2
HCM 2010 Signalized Intersection Summary                                                                        2034 Signal
3: STH 60 & STH 16                                                                                                PM Peak Hour




Movement                      EBL     EBT    EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR       NBL      NBT    NBR       SBL       SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                 160     15      590      80     10        30     495     500        80      30       495     130
Number                           7      4       14       3      8        18        5      2        12       1         6       16
Initial Q (Qb), veh              0      0        0       0      0         0        0      0         0       0         0        0
Ped-Bike Adj(A_pbT)           1.00            1.00    1.00             1.00     1.00             1.00    1.00               1.00
Parking Bus Adj               1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00
Adj Sat Flow veh/h/ln        177.6   177.6   177.6   166.7   166.7   190.0    175.9    175.9   175.9    177.6     177.6   177.6
Lanes                            1       1       1       1       1        0        1       2        1       1         2        1
Cap, veh/h                     419    445      378     352      94     275      658     2033     864      329       915     389
Arrive On Green               0.25    0.25    0.25    0.25    0.25    0.25     0.26     0.58    0.58     0.26      0.26    0.26
Sat Flow, veh/h              1295    1776    1509      936    377     1096     1675     3519    1495      796      3551    1509
Grp Volume(v), veh/h          170       16    314       85       0       43     527      532       43      32       527       69
Grp Sat Flow(s),veh/h/ln     1295    1776    1509     936        0    1473     1675     1759    1495     796       1776    1509
Q Serve(g_s), s                6.8     0.4    11.5     4.4     0.0      1.3     12.0     4.4      0.7     1.8       7.5      2.1
Cycle Q Clear(g_c), s          8.1     0.4    11.5     4.8     0.0      1.3    12.0      4.4      0.7     1.8       7.5      2.1
Prop In Lane                  1.00            1.00    1.00             0.74     1.00             1.00    1.00               1.00
Lane Grp Cap(c), veh/h        419     445     378     352        0     369      658    2033      864     329       915      389
V/C Ratio(X)                  0.41    0.04    0.83    0.24    0.00     0.12     0.80    0.26     0.05    0.10      0.58     0.18
Avail Cap(c_a), veh/h         517     579     493     423        0     481      841    2478     1053     342       976      415
HCM Platoon Ratio             1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00     1.00
Upstream Filter(I)            1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    0.00    1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00
Uniform Delay (d), s/veh      20.0    16.5    20.6    18.3     0.0    16.8     10.3      6.1      5.3    16.7      18.8    16.8
Incr Delay (d2), s/veh         0.6     0.0     9.0     0.4     0.0      0.1      4.3     0.1      0.0     0.1       0.7      0.2
Initial Q Delay(d3),s/veh      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0
%ile Back of Q (95%), veh/ln   3.4     0.3     7.9     1.6     0.0      0.7      8.3     2.8      0.4     0.6       5.2      1.2
Lane Grp Delay (d), s/veh     20.6    16.5    29.7    18.7     0.0    17.0     14.6      6.2      5.4    16.8      19.6    17.0
Lane Grp LOS                     C       B       C       B                B        B       A        A       B         B        B
Approach Vol, veh/h                    500                    128                      1102                         628
Approach Delay, s/veh                 26.2                    18.1                      10.2                       19.2
Approach LOS                             C                       B                         B                          B
Timer
Assigned Phs                             4                       8                5        2                          6
Phs Duration (G+Y+Rc), s              19.6                    19.6             18.6     38.6                       20.0
Change Period (Y+Rc), s                5.0                     5.0              3.5      5.0                        5.0
Max Green Setting (Gmax), s           19.0                    19.0             21.5     41.0                       16.0
Max Q Clear Time (g_c+I1), s          13.5                     6.8             14.0      6.4                        9.5
Green Ext Time (p_c), s                1.1                     1.7              1.2      8.6                        3.6
Intersection Summary
HCM 2010 Ctrl Delay                           16.4
HCM 2010 LOS                                     B
Notes




Project ID: 1401-02-02                                                                                          Synchro 8 Report
TADI                                                                                                                     Page 1
Timing Report, Sorted By Phase                                           2034 Signal
3: STH 60 & STH 16                                                         PM Peak Hour



Phase Number                    2       4         5       6        8
Movement                     NBTL    EBTL      NBL     SBTL     WBTL
Lead/Lag                                       Lead     Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize
Recall Mode                   Min     None     None      Min     None
Maximum Split (s)               46       24       25       21       24
Maximum Split (%)           65.7%    34.3%    35.7%    30.0%    34.3%
Minimum Split (s)               20       15      9.5       20       15
Yellow Time (s)                  4        4      3.5        4        4
All-Red Time (s)                 1        1        0        1        1
Minimum Initial (s)             15       10        6       15       10
Vehicle Extension (s)            3        3        3        3        3
Minimum Gap (s)                  3        3        3        3        3
Time Before Reduce (s)           0        0        0        0        0
Time To Reduce (s)               0        0        0        0        0
Walk Time (s)
Flash Dont Walk (s)
Dual Entry                    Yes      Yes      No       Yes      Yes
Inhibit Max                   Yes      Yes     Yes       Yes      Yes
Start Time (s)                  0       46        0       25       46
End Time (s)                   46        0      25        46        0
Yield/Force Off (s)            41       65     21.5       41       65
Yield/Force Off 170(s)         41       65     21.5       41       65
Local Start Time (s)           45       21      45         0       21
Local Yield (s)                16       40     66.5       16       40
Local Yield 170(s)             16       40     66.5       16       40
Intersection Summary
Cycle Length                                     70
Control Type                 Actuated-Uncoordinated
Natural Cycle                                    55

Splits and Phases:   3: STH 60 & STH 16




Project ID: 1401-02-02                                                   Synchro 8 Report
TADI                                                                              Page 2
                             APPENDIX C5


        TRAFFIC OPERATIONAL ANALYSIS

   FORECASTED ROUNDABOUT ANALYSIS

                       Construction Year 2014
                         Interim Year 2024
                         Design Year 2034




Traffic Analysis & Design, Inc.                 APPENDIX
Formatted Report                                                                                                                                                    Page 1 of 1



                                                                      ROUNDABOUT REPORT


General Information                                                                      Site Information
Analyst                 TSC                                                              Intersection               STH 16 & STH 60
Agency or Co.           TADI                                                             E/W Street Name
Date Performed          7/24/2013                                                        N/S Street Name
Time Period             AM Peak Hour                                                     Analysis Year              2014
Peak Hour Factor        0.94                                                             Project ID                 1401-02-02 (WisDOT) 1357-4 (TADI)
Project Description:
Volume Adjustment and Site Characteristics
                                               EB                                       WB                                   NB                                     SB
                                L         T          R          U       L         T          R         U     L           T         R         U     L           T          R        U
Number of Lanes (N)             1         1          0                  1         1          0               0           2         0               0          2           0
Lane Assignment                      L                    TR                 L                    TR             LT                     TR              LT                    TR
Right-Turn Bypass                             None                                     None                                  None                                  None
Conflicting Lanes                               2                                       2                                     2                                      2
Volume (V), veh/h               20        5         60          0      45         15         20        0    85        285          55        0    20          400        25        0
Heavy Veh. Adj. (fHV), %        23       23         23          3      31         31         31        3    12         12          12        3     9          9           9        3
Pedestrians Crossing                            0                                       0                                     0                                      0
Critical and Follow-Up Headway Adjustment
                                                         EB                                   WB                                  NB                                 SB
                                          Left       Right          Bypass       Left        Right     Bypass      Left        Right     Bypass        Left         Right     Bypass
Critical Headway (sec)                   4.0000 4.0000 5.1929 4.0000 4.0000 5.1929 4.0000 4.0000 5.1929 4.0000 4.0000 5.1929
Follow-Up Headway (sec)                  2.8000 2.8000 3.1858 2.8000 2.8000 3.1858 2.8000 2.8000 3.1858 2.8000 2.8000 3.1858
Flow Computations
                                                         EB                                   WB                                  NB                                 SB
                                          Left       Right          Bypass       Left        Right     Bypass      Left        Right     Bypass        Left         Right     Bypass
Circulating Flow (Vc), pc/h                              550                                 467                                  56                                185
Exiting Flow (Vex), pc/h                                 95                                  151                               394                                  605
Entry Flow (Ve), pc/h                     26             85                      63           49                   238         268                     243          273
Entry Volume veh/h                        21             69                      48           37                   212         239                     223          250
Capacity and v/c Ratios
                                                         EB                                   WB                                  NB                                 SB
                                          Left       Right          Bypass       Left        Right     Bypass      Left        Right     Bypass        Left         Right     Bypass
Capacity (cPCE), pc/h                     864            864                     918         918                 1235         1235                 1125            1125
Capacity (c), veh/h                       703            703                     700         700                 1103         1103                 1032            1032
v/c Ratio (X)                             0.03           0.10                0.07            0.05                0.19          0.22                 0.22            0.24
Delay and Level of Service
                                                         EB                                   WB                                  NB                                 SB
                                          Left       Right          Bypass       Left        Right     Bypass      Left        Right     Bypass        Left         Right     Bypass
Lane Control Delay (d), s/veh             5.4            6.2                     5.9         5.7                   5.0            5.3                  5.5          5.8
Lane LOS                                   A              A                      A            A                    A              A                    A             A
Lane 95% Queue                            0.1            0.3                     0.2         0.2                   0.7            0.8                  0.8          1.0
Approach Delay, s/veh                                    6.00                                5.79                              5.13                                 5.68
Approach LOS, s/veh                                       A                                   A                                   A                                  A
Intersection Delay, s/veh                                                                                   5.49
Intersection LOS                                                                                             A
Copyright © 2013 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                              HCS      2010TM   6.50 Roundabouts                  Generated: 8/8/2013              5:57 PM




file:///C:/Users/TADI/AppData/Local/Temp/u2kF62.tmp                                                                                                                       8/8/2013
Formatted Report                                                                                                                                                    Page 1 of 1



                                                                      ROUNDABOUT REPORT


General Information                                                                      Site Information
Analyst                 TSC                                                              Intersection               STH 16 & STH 60
Agency or Co.           TADI                                                             E/W Street Name            STH 60 (EB) Travel Center (WB)
Date Performed          7/24/2013                                                        N/S Street Name            STH 60/16 (NB) STH 16 (SB)
Time Period             PM Peak Hour                                                     Analysis Year              2014
Peak Hour Factor        0.94                                                             Project ID                 1401-02-02 (WisDOT) 1357-4 (TADI)
Project Description:
Volume Adjustment and Site Characteristics
                                               EB                                       WB                                   NB                                     SB
                                L         T          R          U       L         T          R         U     L           T         R         U     L           T          R        U
Number of Lanes (N)             1         1          0                  1         1          0               0           2         0               0          2           0
Lane Assignment                      L                    TR                 L                    TR              LT                    TR              LT                    TR
Right-Turn Bypass                             None                                     None                                  None                                  None
Conflicting Lanes                               2                                       2                                     2                                      2
Volume (V), veh/h               40       15         175         0      65         5          30        0    160        400         65        0    25          395        35        0
Heavy Veh. Adj. (fHV), %        7         7          7          3      14         14         14        3     8           8         8         3     7          7           7        3
Pedestrians Crossing                            0                                       0                                     0                                      0
Critical and Follow-Up Headway Adjustment
                                                         EB                                   WB                                  NB                                 SB
                                          Left       Right          Bypass       Left        Right     Bypass      Left        Right     Bypass        Left         Right     Bypass
Critical Headway (sec)                   4.0000 4.0000 5.1929 4.0000 4.0000 5.1929 4.0000 4.0000 5.1929 4.0000 4.0000 5.1929
Follow-Up Headway (sec)                  2.8000 2.8000 3.1858 2.8000 2.8000 3.1858 2.8000 2.8000 3.1858 2.8000 2.8000 3.1858
Flow Computations
                                                         EB                                   WB                                  NB                                 SB
                                          Left       Right          Bypass       Left        Right     Bypass      Left        Right     Bypass        Left         Right     Bypass
Circulating Flow (Vc), pc/h                              557                                 690                                  91                                269
Exiting Flow (Vex), pc/h                                 120                                 230                               541                                  728
Entry Flow (Ve), pc/h                     46             216                     79           42                   337         381                     243          275
Entry Volume veh/h                        43             202                     69           37                   312         353                     227          257
Capacity and v/c Ratios
                                                         EB                                   WB                                  NB                                 SB
                                          Left       Right          Bypass       Left        Right     Bypass      Left        Right     Bypass        Left         Right     Bypass
Capacity (cPCE), pc/h                     860            860                     782         782                  1204        1204                 1059            1059
Capacity (c), veh/h                       804            804                     686         686                  1115        1115                     990          990
v/c Ratio (X)                             0.05           0.25                0.10            0.05                 0.28         0.32                 0.23            0.26
Delay and Level of Service
                                                         EB                                   WB                                  NB                                 SB
                                          Left       Right          Bypass       Left        Right     Bypass      Left        Right     Bypass        Left         Right     Bypass
Lane Control Delay (d), s/veh             5.0            7.2                     6.3         5.8                   5.9            6.3                  5.9          6.2
Lane LOS                                   A              A                      A            A                    A              A                    A             A
Lane 95% Queue                            0.2            1.0                     0.3         0.2                   1.2            1.4                  0.9          1.0
Approach Delay, s/veh                                    6.84                                6.16                              6.10                                 6.04
Approach LOS, s/veh                                       A                                   A                                   A                                  A
Intersection Delay, s/veh                                                                                   6.21
Intersection LOS                                                                                             A
Copyright © 2013 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                              HCS      2010TM   6.50 Roundabouts                  Generated: 8/8/2013              5:58 PM




file:///C:/Users/TADI/AppData/Local/Temp/u2k9537.tmp                                                                                                                      8/8/2013
Formatted Report                                                                                                                                                     Page 1 of 1



                                                                     ROUNDABOUT REPORT


General Information                                                                       Site Information
Analyst                 TSC                                                               Intersection               STH 16 & STH 60
Agency or Co.           TADI                                                              E/W Street Name            STH 60 (EB) Travel Center (WB)
Date Performed          7/24/2013                                                         N/S Street Name            STH 60/16 (NB) STH 16 (SB)
Time Period             AM Peak Hour                                                      Analysis Year              2024
Peak Hour Factor        0.94                                                              Project ID                 1401-02-02 (WisDOT) 1357-4 (TADI)
Project Description:
Volume Adjustment and Site Characteristics
                                               EB                                        WB                                   NB                                     SB
                                L         T          R         U          L        T          R         U     L           T         R         U     L           T          R         U
Number of Lanes (N)             1         1         0                     1        1          0               0           2         0               0          2           0
Lane Assignment                      L                    TR                  L                    TR              LT                    TR              LT                     TR
Right-Turn Bypass                         Yielding                                      None                                  None                                  None
Conflicting Lanes                               2                                        2                                     2                                      2
Volume (V), veh/h               65        5         215        0         50        15         20        0    365        320         60        0    20          455        110        0
Heavy Veh. Adj. (fHV), %        23       23         23         3         31        31         31        3    12         12          12        3     9          9           9         3
Pedestrians Crossing                            0                                        0                                     0                                      0
Critical and Follow-Up Headway Adjustment
                                                         EB                                    WB                                  NB                                 SB
                                          Left       Right         Bypass         Left        Right     Bypass      Left        Right     Bypass        Left         Right      Bypass
Critical Headway (sec)                   4.0000 4.0000 4.0000 4.0000 4.0000 5.1929 4.0000 4.0000 5.1929 4.0000 4.0000 5.1929
Follow-Up Headway (sec)                  2.8000 2.8000 2.8000 2.8000 2.8000 3.1858 2.8000 2.8000 3.1858 2.8000 2.8000 3.1858
Flow Computations
                                                         EB                                    WB                                  NB                                 SB
                                          Left       Right         Bypass         Left        Right     Bypass      Left        Right     Bypass        Left         Right      Bypass
Circulating Flow (Vc), pc/h                             621                                   901                               115                                  526
Exiting Flow (Vex), pc/h                                101                                   583                               494                                  597
Entry Flow (Ve), pc/h                     85              7         281           70           49                   417         470                     319          360
Entry Volume veh/h                        69              6         228           53           37                   372         420                     293          330
Capacity and v/c Ratios
                                                         EB                                    WB                                  NB                                 SB
                                          Left       Right         Bypass         Left        Right     Bypass      Left        Right     Bypass        Left         Right      Bypass
Capacity (cPCE), pc/h                     821           821         835           671         671                  1183        1183                     880          880
Capacity (c), veh/h                       668           668         679           512         512                  1057        1057                     807          807
v/c Ratio (X)                             0.10          0.01        0.34      0.10            0.07                 0.35         0.40                 0.36            0.41
Delay and Level of Service
                                                         EB                                    WB                                  NB                                 SB
                                          Left       Right         Bypass         Left        Right     Bypass      Left        Right     Bypass        Left         Right      Bypass
Lane Control Delay (d), s/veh             6.5            5.5        9.6           8.4         7.9                   7.0            7.6                  8.8          9.6
Lane LOS                                   A              A          A            A            A                    A              A                    A             A
Lane 95% Queue                            0.3            0.0        1.5           0.3         0.2                   1.6            1.9                  1.7          2.0
Approach Delay, s/veh                                   8.86                                  8.20                              7.33                                 9.20
Approach LOS, s/veh                                       A                                    A                                   A                                  A
Intersection Delay, s/veh                                                                                    8.27
Intersection LOS                                                                                              A
Copyright © 2013 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                               HCS      2010TM   6.50 Roundabouts                  Generated: 8/8/2013               5:58 PM




file:///C:/Users/TADI/AppData/Local/Temp/u2kE0D9.tmp                                                                                                                       8/8/2013
Formatted Report                                                                                                                                                   Page 1 of 1



                                                                    ROUNDABOUT REPORT


General Information                                                                      Site Information
Analyst                 TSC                                                              Intersection              STH 16 & STH 60
Agency or Co.           TADI                                                             E/W Street Name
Date Performed          7/24/2013                                                        N/S Street Name
Time Period             PM Peak Hour                                                     Analysis Year             2024
Peak Hour Factor        0.94                                                             Project ID                1401-02-02 (WisDOT) 1357-4 (TADI)
Project Description:
Volume Adjustment and Site Characteristics
                                              EB                                        WB                                   NB                                    SB
                                L        T          R         U          L        T          R         U     L          T         R         U     L           T          R         U
Number of Lanes (N)             1        1         0                     1        1          0               0          2         0               0          2           0
Lane Assignment                     L                    TR                  L                    TR              LT                   TR              LT                     TR
Right-Turn Bypass                        Yielding                                      None                                 None                                  None
Conflicting Lanes                              2                                        2                                    2                                      2
Volume (V), veh/h             160       15         570        0         75        10         30        0    480        445        70        0    25          440        130        0
Heavy Veh. Adj. (fHV), %        7        7         7          3         14        14         14        3     8          8         8         3     7          7           7         3
Pedestrians Crossing                           0                                        0                                    0                                      0
Critical and Follow-Up Headway Adjustment
                                                        EB                                    WB                                 NB                                 SB
                                         Left       Right         Bypass         Left        Right     Bypass     Left        Right     Bypass        Left         Right      Bypass
Critical Headway (sec)                  4.0000 4.0000 4.0000 4.0000 4.0000 5.1929 4.0000 4.0000 5.1929 4.0000 4.0000 5.1929
Follow-Up Headway (sec)                 2.8000 2.8000 2.8000 2.8000 2.8000 3.1858 2.8000 2.8000 3.1858 2.8000 2.8000 3.1858
Flow Computations
                                                        EB                                    WB                                 NB                                 SB
                                         Left       Right         Bypass         Left        Right     Bypass     Left        Right     Bypass        Left         Right      Bypass
Circulating Flow (Vc), pc/h                            620                                  1244                              227                                  654
Exiting Flow (Vex), pc/h                               126                                   712                              730                                  592
Entry Flow (Ve), pc/h                    182            17         649           91           49                  537         606                     318          359
Entry Volume veh/h                       170            16         607           80           43                  497         561                     297          336
Capacity and v/c Ratios
                                                        EB                                    WB                                 NB                                 SB
                                         Left       Right         Bypass         Left        Right     Bypass     Left        Right     Bypass        Left         Right      Bypass
Capacity (cPCE), pc/h                    821           821         839           523         523                  1091       1091                     801          801
Capacity (c), veh/h                      768           768         784           459         459                  1010       1010                     749          749
v/c Ratio (X)                            0.22          0.02        0.77      0.17            0.09                 0.49        0.56                 0.40            0.45
Delay and Level of Service
                                                        EB                                    WB                                 NB                                 SB
                                         Left       Right         Bypass         Left        Right     Bypass     Left        Right     Bypass        Left         Right      Bypass
Lane Control Delay (d), s/veh            7.1            4.9        22.3      10.4            9.1                  9.4         10.7                    9.9          10.9
Lane LOS                                  A              A          C            B            A                    A              B                   A             B
Lane 95% Queue                           0.8            0.1        7.6           0.6         0.3                  2.8            3.5                  1.9          2.3
Approach Delay, s/veh                               18.67                                    9.92                            10.11                                10.43
Approach LOS, s/veh                                      C                                    A                                   B                                 B
Intersection Delay, s/veh                                                                                  12.78
Intersection LOS                                                                                             B
Copyright © 2013 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                              HCS      2010TM   6.50 Roundabouts                 Generated: 8/8/2013               5:58 PM




file:///C:/Users/TADI/AppData/Local/Temp/u2k209A.tmp                                                                                                                     8/8/2013
Formatted Report                                                                                                                                                     Page 1 of 1



                                                                     ROUNDABOUT REPORT


General Information                                                                       Site Information
Analyst                 TSC                                                               Intersection               STH 16 & STH 60
Agency or Co.           TADI                                                              E/W Street Name            STH 60 (EB) Travel Center (WB)
Date Performed          7/24/2013                                                         N/S Street Name
Time Period             AM Peak Hour                                                      Analysis Year              2034
Peak Hour Factor        0.94                                                              Project ID                 1401-02-02 (WisDOT) 1357-4 (TADI)
Project Description:
Volume Adjustment and Site Characteristics
                                               EB                                        WB                                   NB                                     SB
                                L         T          R         U          L        T          R         U     L           T         R         U     L           T          R         U
Number of Lanes (N)             1         1         0                     1        1          0               0           2         0               0          2           0
Lane Assignment                      L                    TR                  L                    TR              LT                    TR              LT                     TR
Right-Turn Bypass                    Non-Yielding                                       None                                  None                                  None
Conflicting Lanes                               2                                        2                                     2                                      2
Volume (V), veh/h               65        5         225        0      55           15         20        0    375        365         65        0    20          510        110        0
Heavy Veh. Adj. (fHV), %        23       23         23         3      31           31         31        3    12         12          12        3     9          9           9         3
Pedestrians Crossing                            0                                        0                                     0                                      0
Critical and Follow-Up Headway Adjustment
                                                         EB                                    WB                                  NB                                 SB
                                          Left       Right         Bypass         Left        Right     Bypass      Left        Right     Bypass        Left         Right      Bypass
Critical Headway (sec)                   4.0000 4.0000 4.0000 4.0000 4.0000 5.1929 4.0000 4.0000 5.1929 4.0000 4.0000 5.1929
Follow-Up Headway (sec)                  2.8000 2.8000 2.8000 2.8000 2.8000 3.1858 2.8000 2.8000 3.1858 2.8000 2.8000 3.1858
Flow Computations
                                                         EB                                    WB                                  NB                                 SB
                                          Left       Right         Bypass         Left        Right     Bypass      Left        Right     Bypass        Left         Right      Bypass
Circulating Flow (Vc), pc/h                             691                                   967                               115                                  545
Exiting Flow (Vex), pc/h                                107                                   595                               548                                  668
Entry Flow (Ve), pc/h                     85              7         294           77           49                   451         508                     349          393
Entry Volume veh/h                        69              6         239           59           37                   403         454                     320          361
Capacity and v/c Ratios
                                                         EB                                    WB                                  NB                                 SB
                                          Left       Right         Bypass         Left        Right     Bypass      Left        Right     Bypass        Left         Right      Bypass
Capacity (cPCE), pc/h                     780           780                       640         640                  1183        1183                     868          868
Capacity (c), veh/h                       635           635                       488         488                  1057        1057                     796          796
v/c Ratio (X)                             0.11          0.01                  0.12            0.08                 0.38         0.43                 0.40            0.45
Delay and Level of Service
                                                         EB                                    WB                                  NB                                 SB
                                          Left       Right         Bypass         Left        Right     Bypass      Left        Right     Bypass        Left         Right      Bypass
Lane Control Delay (d), s/veh             6.9            5.8        0.0           9.0         8.4                   7.4            8.1                  9.5          10.5
Lane LOS                                   A              A                       A            A                    A              A                    A             B
Lane 95% Queue                            0.4            0.0                      0.4         0.2                   1.8            2.2                  2.0          2.4
Approach Delay, s/veh                                   1.63                                  8.75                              7.76                                10.04
Approach LOS, s/veh                                       A                                    A                                   A                                  B
Intersection Delay, s/veh                                                                                    7.62
Intersection LOS                                                                                              A
Copyright © 2013 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                               HCS      2010TM   6.50 Roundabouts                  Generated: 8/8/2013               5:58 PM




file:///C:/Users/TADI/AppData/Local/Temp/u2k604B.tmp                                                                                                                       8/8/2013
Formatted Report                                                                                                                                                    Page 1 of 1



                                                                    ROUNDABOUT REPORT


General Information                                                                      Site Information
Analyst                 TSC                                                              Intersection               STH 16 & STH 60
Agency or Co.           TADI                                                             E/W Street Name
Date Performed          7/24/2013                                                        N/S Street Name
Time Period             PM Peak Hour                                                     Analysis Year              2034
Peak Hour Factor        0.94                                                             Project ID                 1401-02-02 (WisDOT) 1357-4 (TADI)
Project Description:
Volume Adjustment and Site Characteristics
                                              EB                                        WB                                   NB                                     SB
                                L        T          R         U          L        T          R         U     L           T         R         U     L           T          R         U
Number of Lanes (N)             1        1         0                     1        1          0               0           2         0               0          2           0
Lane Assignment                     L                    TR                  L                    TR              LT                    TR              LT                     TR
Right-Turn Bypass                   Non-Yielding                                       None                                  None                                  None
Conflicting Lanes                              2                                        2                                     2                                      2
Volume (V), veh/h             160       15         590        0      80           10         30        0    495        500         80        0    30          495        130        0
Heavy Veh. Adj. (fHV), %        7        7         7          3      14           14         14        3     8           8         8         3     7          7           7         3
Pedestrians Crossing                           0                                        0                                     0                                      0
Critical and Follow-Up Headway Adjustment
                                                        EB                                    WB                                  NB                                 SB
                                         Left       Right         Bypass         Left        Right     Bypass      Left        Right     Bypass        Left         Right      Bypass
Critical Headway (sec)                  4.0000 4.0000 4.0000 4.0000 4.0000 5.1929 4.0000 4.0000 5.1929 4.0000 4.0000 5.1929
Follow-Up Headway (sec)                 2.8000 2.8000 2.8000 2.8000 2.8000 3.1858 2.8000 2.8000 3.1858 2.8000 2.8000 3.1858
Flow Computations
                                                        EB                                    WB                                  NB                                 SB
                                         Left       Right         Bypass         Left        Right     Bypass      Left        Right     Bypass        Left         Right      Bypass
Circulating Flow (Vc), pc/h                            694                                  1325                               233                                  678
Exiting Flow (Vex), pc/h                               143                                   729                               793                                  660
Entry Flow (Ve), pc/h                    182            17         672           97           49                   581         655                     350          395
Entry Volume veh/h                       170            16         628           85           43                   538         606                     327          369
Capacity and v/c Ratios
                                                        EB                                    WB                                  NB                                 SB
                                         Left       Right         Bypass         Left        Right     Bypass      Left        Right     Bypass        Left         Right      Bypass
Capacity (cPCE), pc/h                    779           779                       494         494                  1086        1086                     788          788
Capacity (c), veh/h                      728           728                       433         433                  1006        1006                     736          736
v/c Ratio (X)                            0.23          0.02                  0.20            0.10                 0.53         0.60                 0.44            0.50
Delay and Level of Service
                                                        EB                                    WB                                  NB                                 SB
                                         Left       Right         Bypass         Left        Right     Bypass      Left        Right     Bypass        Left         Right      Bypass
Lane Control Delay (d), s/veh            7.6            5.2        0.0       11.3            9.7                  10.3         11.9                 11.0            12.2
Lane LOS                                  A              A                       B            A                    B              B                    B             B
Lane 95% Queue                           0.9            0.1                      0.7         0.3                   3.3            4.2                  2.3          2.8
Approach Delay, s/veh                                  1.69                                 10.78                             11.13                                11.63
Approach LOS, s/veh                                      A                                    B                                   B                                  B
Intersection Delay, s/veh                                                                                   8.48
Intersection LOS                                                                                             A
Copyright © 2013 University of Florida, All Rights Reserved                              HCS      2010TM   6.50 Roundabouts                  Generated: 8/8/2013               5:59 PM




file:///C:/Users/TADI/AppData/Local/Temp/u2k93CC.tmp                                                                                                                      8/8/2013
                              APPENDIX D


               SIGNAL WARRANT STUDIES

                       Construction Year 2014
                         Design Year 2034




Traffic Analysis & Design, Inc.                 APPENDIX
TRAFFIC SIGNAL WARRANT VOLUME CALCULATIONS: STH 60 & STH 16                                                                                                                                     Page 1

                                                                                                                                                           AADT    AADT                        By: TSC
                                                                                                                                                            IN     OUT                   Date: 7/23/13
                                               2013 Existing Traffic                                                                                         0       0

                                                                                                                                              ---
                                                                                                                                                            0%
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                    0%
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                        <- % Reduction, Sensitivity Test


                 STH 60 from North      Gas/FF Driveway from East   STH 16/STH 60 from South      STH 16 from West       Intersectio                      % AADT % AADT
Start Time    Right    Thru      Left    Right    Thru     Left     Right    Thru      Left    Right   Thru      Left      n Totals     IN          OUT     IN    OUT Notes
 6-7am         8        302       16      23       7        48         63     155       55       38      5        5          725         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 7-8am         21       363       19      20       16       42         50     284       66       59      4        9          953         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 8-9am         13       273       10      13       4        43         47     220       45       44      5        10         727         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 9-10am        10       247       12      8        2        52         43     166       54       71      7        19         691         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 10-11am       23       237       22      21       7        59         51     202       61       69      11       13         776         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 11am-12pm     10       254       23      26       11       48         74     221       56       67      4        13         807         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 12-1pm        14       229       25      36       8        63         76     198       57       67      7        20         800         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 1-2pm         14       213       20      32       6        59         76     269       63       67      6        18         843         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 2-3pm         15       319       25      24       9        68         58     260       75       61      11       12         937         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 3-4pm         13       324       13      23       5        61         72     349       78       87      10       22        1057         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 4-5pm         18       388       25      27       7        66         64     396       94      115      15       21        1236         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 5-6pm         14       348       21      29       6        51         68     399       72       96      5        29        1138         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 6-7pm         15       197       18      22       7        49         56     229       52       56      1        11         713         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 7-8pm         3        121       11      17       7        42         45     196       41       39      3        13         538         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
                                                                                                                                         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
                                                                                                                                         0           0     0.0%   0.0%

IN or OUT
PERECENTAGE



                                                                                                                                       1.3%         GR     AADT    AADT
                                                                                                                                         1          Yr      IN     OUT
                                   Background Traffic Growth to 2014                                                                                         0       0

                                                                                                                                              ---
                                                                                                                                                            0%
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                    0%
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                        <- % Reduction, Sensitivity Test


                 STH 60 from North      Gas/FF Driveway from East   STH 16/STH 60 from South      STH 16 from West       Intersectio                      % AADT % AADT
Start Time    Right    Thru      Left    Right    Thru      Left    Right    Thru      Left    Right   Thru      Left      n Totals     IN          OUT     IN    OUT Notes
 6-7am          0        4        0        0        0        1         1       2        1        0        0        0          9          0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 7-8am          0        5        0        0        0        1         1       4        1        1        0        0         13          0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 8-9am          0        4        0        0        0        1         1       3        1        1        0        0         11          0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 9-10am         0        3        0        0        0        1         1       2        1        1        0        0          9          0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 10-11am        0        3        0        0        0        1         1       3        1        1        0        0         10          0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 11am-12pm      0        3        0        0        0        1         1       3        1        1        0        0         10          0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 12-1pm         0        3        0        0        0        1         1       3        1        1        0        0         10          0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 1-2pm          0        3        0        0        0        1         1       3        1        1        0        0         10          0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 2-3pm          0        4        0        0        0        1         1       3        1        1        0        0         11          0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 3-4pm          0        4        0        0        0        1         1       5        1        1        0        0         13          0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 4-5pm          0        5        0        0        0        1         1       5        1        1        0        0         14          0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 5-6pm          0        5        0        0        0        1         1       5        1        1        0        0         14          0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 6-7pm          0        3        0        0        0        1         1       3        1        1        0        0         10          0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 7-8pm          0        2        0        0        0        1         1       3        1        1        0        0          9          0           0     0.0%   0.0%
                0        0        0        0        0        0         0       0        0        0        0        0          0          0           0     0.0%   0.0%
                0        0        0        0        0        0         0       0        0        0        0        0          0          0           0     0.0%   0.0%

IN or OUT
PERECENTAGE



                                                                                                                                                           AADT    AADT
                                                                                                                                                            IN     OUT
                              CCC Phase 1 (By 2014) - Shopping Center                                                                                      1025    1030

                                                                                                                                              ---
                                                                                                                                                            8%
                                                                                                                                                            945
                                                                                                                                                                    8%
                                                                                                                                                                    950
                                                                                                                                                                        <- % Reduction, Pass-by


                 STH 60 from North      Gas/FF Driveway from East   STH 16/STH 60 from South      STH 16 from West       Intersectio                      % AADT % AADT
Start Time    Right    Thru      Left    Right    Thru      Left    Right    Thru      Left    Right   Thru      Left      n Totals     IN          OUT      IN    OUT Notes
 6-7am         5         0        0        0        0        0         0       0        10      5         0       0          20         15           10     1.5%   1.0% <-- From WisDOT
 7-8am         5         0        0        0        0        0         0       0        20      20        0       5          50         25           25     2.5%   2.4% <-- From WisDOT
 8-9am         5         0        0        0        0        0         0       0        25      20        0       5          55         35           25     3.9%   2.4% <-- From WisDOT
 9-10am        10        0        0        0        0        0         0       0        35      25        0       5          75         50           35     5.5%   3.7% <-- From WisDOT
 10-11am       15        0        0        0        0        0         0       0        50      40        0       10         115        70           60     7.6%   6.5% <<Based on ITE 820
 11am-12pm     15        0        0        0        0        0         0       0        50      55        0       15         135        70           80     7.6%   8.4% <<Based on ITE 820
 12-1pm        15        0        0        0        0        0         0       0        50      55        0       15         135        70           80     7.6%   8.2% <<Based on ITE 820
 1-2pm         15        0        0        0        0        0         0       0        45      50        0       15         125        65           70     6.9%   7.5% <<Based on ITE 820
 2-3pm         15        0        0        0        0        0         0       0        60      55        0       15         145        85           75     9.0%   7.8% <<Based on ITE 820
 3-4pm         20        0        0        0        0        0         0       0        65      65        0       20         170        90           90     9.6%   9.5% <<Based on ITE 820
 4-5pm         20        0        0        0        0        0         0       0        65      70        0       20         175        90          100     9.7%  10.4% <<Based on ITE 820
 5-6pm         20        0        0        0        0        0         0       0        65      75        0       20         180        95          105    10.3% 11.0% <<Based on ITE 820
 6-7pm         15        0        0        0        0        0         0       0        55      55        0       15         140        75           75     8.0%   8.0% <<Estimated
 7-8pm         10        0        0        0        0        0         0       0        30      35        0       10         85         45           50     5.0%   5.0% <<Estimated
               0         0        0        0        0        0         0       0        0       0         0       0           0          0           0      0.0%   0.0%
               0         0        0        0        0        0         0       0        0       0         0       0           0          0           0      0.0%   0.0%

IN or OUT       IN                                                                      IN      OUT               OUT
PERECENTAGE   20.0%                                                                   70.0%    70.0%             20.0%



                                                                                                                                                           AADT    AADT
                                                                                                                                                            IN     OUT
                                                              ------                                                                                         0       0

                                                                                                                                              ---
                                                                                                                                                            0%
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                    0%
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                        <- % Reduction, Sensitivity Test


                 STH 60 from North      Gas/FF Driveway from East   STH 16/STH 60 from South      STH 16 from West       Intersectio                      % AADT % AADT
Start Time    Right    Thru      Left    Right    Thru      Left    Right    Thru      Left    Right   Thru      Left      n Totals     IN          OUT     IN    OUT Notes
 6-7am          0        0        0        0        0        0         0       0        0        0        0        0          0          0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 7-8am          0        0        0        0        0        0         0       0        0        0        0        0          0          0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 8-9am          0        0        0        0        0        0         0       0        0        0        0        0          0          0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 9-10am         0        0        0        0        0        0         0       0        0        0        0        0          0          0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 10-11am        0        0        0        0        0        0         0       0        0        0        0        0          0          0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 11am-12pm      0        0        0        0        0        0         0       0        0        0        0        0          0          0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 12-1pm         0        0        0        0        0        0         0       0        0        0        0        0          0          0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 1-2pm          0        0        0        0        0        0         0       0        0        0        0        0          0          0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 2-3pm          0        0        0        0        0        0         0       0        0        0        0        0          0          0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 3-4pm          0        0        0        0        0        0         0       0        0        0        0        0          0          0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 4-5pm          0        0        0        0        0        0         0       0        0        0        0        0          0          0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 5-6pm          0        0        0        0        0        0         0       0        0        0        0        0          0          0           0     0.0%   0.0%
                0        0        0        0        0        0         0       0        0        0        0        0          0          0           0     0.0%   0.0%
                0        0        0        0        0        0         0       0        0        0        0        0          0          0           0     0.0%   0.0%
                0        0        0        0        0        0         0       0        0        0        0        0          0          0           0     0.0%   0.0%
                0        0        0        0        0        0         0       0        0        0        0        0          0          0           0     0.0%   0.0%

IN or OUT
PERECENTAGE


TRAFFIC SIGNAL WARRANT VOLUME CALCULATIONS: STH 60 & STH 16                                                                                                                                     Page 2

                                                                                                                                                           AADT    AADT                           By: TSC
                                                                                                                                                            IN     OUT                       Date: 7/23/13
                                                              ------                                                                                         0      0
TRAFFIC SIGNAL WARRANT VOLUME SUMMARY:                                                                    STH 60 & STH 16
                                                                                                                                                                             1

                                       2014 Forecasted Traffic (Includes Phase 1 of the CCC)
                                                                                                                                          
                               MAJOR

                               MINOR

                             STH 60 from North               Gas/FF Driveway from East            STH 16/STH 60 from South           STH 16 from West             Intersection
     Start Time           Right    Thru      Left            Right      Thru      Left            Right    Thru       Left       Right     Thru       Left           Totals
      6-7am                    13        306         16        23                7     49          64       157          66       43           5         5            754
      7-8am                    26        368         19        20                16    43          51       288          87       80           4         14          1016
      8-9am                    18        277         10        13                4     44          48       223          71       65           5         15           793
      9-10am                   20        250         12        8                 2     53          44       168          90       97           7         24           775
      10-11am                  38        240         22        21                7     60          52       205         112      110           11        23           901
      11am-12pm                25        257         23        26                11    49          75       224         107      123           4         28           952
      12-1pm                   29        232         25        36                8     64          77       201         108      123           7         35           945
      1-2pm                    29        216         20        32                6     60          77       272         109      118           6         33           978
      2-3pm                    30        323         25        24                9     69          59       263         136      117           11        27          1093
      3-4pm                    33        328         13        23                5     62          73       354         144      153           10        42          1240
      4-5pm                    38        393         25        27                7     67          65       401         160      186           15        41          1425
      5-6pm                    34        353         21        29                6     52          69       404         138      172           5         49          1332
      6-7pm                    30        200         18        22                7     50          57       232         108      112           1         26           863
      7-8pm                    13        123         11        17                7     43          46       199          72       75           3         23           632




     CONDITIONS
     < 10,000 Population               Yes                              STH 60: 45 mph
     Major Street Speed > 40           Yes                              STH 16: 55 mph?
     Major Street Lanes                Two or more                      NB/SB: LT + TH + TH + RT
     Minor Street Lanes                One                              EB/WB: LT/TH + RT
     T-Intersection (Y/N)              No                               Columbia Population: 4991



     HOULY VOLUME SUMMARY                                 WARRANT 1: EIGHT HOUR WARRANT:                  MAJOR         vs.     MINOR
                                                                                                                                                    1C
         Percent Right Turns -->         0%                                              1A (70%)             1B (70%)              1A (56%)                   1B (56%)
     Start Time          MAJOR          MINOR             Start Time                  MAJOR       MINOR   MAJOR        MINOR    MAJOR     MINOR      MAJOR          MINOR
      6-7am               622             56               6-7am                       YES         NO      NO           YES      YES       NO         YES            YES
      7-8am               839             59               7-8am                       YES         NO      YES          YES      YES       NO         YES            YES
      8-9am               647             48               8-9am                       YES         NO      YES          NO       YES       NO         YES            YES
      9-10am              584             55               9-10am                      YES         NO      NO           YES      YES       NO         YES            YES
      10-11am             669             67               10-11am                     YES         NO      YES          YES      YES       NO         YES            YES
      11am-12pm           711             60               11am-12pm                   YES         NO      YES          YES      YES       NO         YES            YES
      12-1pm              672             72               12-1pm                      YES         NO      YES          YES      YES       NO         YES            YES
      1-2pm               723             66               1-2pm                       YES         NO      YES          YES      YES       NO         YES            YES
      2-3pm               836             78               2-3pm                       YES         NO      YES          YES      YES       NO         YES            YES
      3-4pm               945             67               3-4pm                       YES         NO      YES          YES      YES       NO         YES            YES
      4-5pm               1082            74               4-5pm                       YES         NO      YES          YES      YES       NO         YES            YES
      5-6pm               1019            58               5-6pm                       YES         NO      YES          YES      YES       NO         YES            YES
      6-7pm               645             57               6-7pm                       YES         NO      YES          YES      YES       NO         YES            YES
      7-8pm               464             50               7-8pm                       YES         NO      NO           NO       YES       NO         NO             YES
     12:00 AM              0              0               12:00 AM                     NO          NO      NO           NO       NO        NO         NO             NO
     12:00 AM              0              0               12:00 AM                     NO          NO      NO           NO       NO        NO         NO             NO

                                                          Threshold Volume             420         105      630         53       336           84        504          42
                                                          # that Meet Criteria                0                    10                                0
                                                          Condition Met                      NO                   YES                               NO



     HOURLY VOLUME SUMMARY                                WARRANT 1: EIGHT HOUR WARRANT:                     NB Lt      vs.    SB Th+Rt
                                                                                                                                                    1C
                        SB Th+Rt        NB Lt                                            1A (70%)             1B (70%)              1A (56%)                   1B (56%)          LEFT-TURN
     Start Time         Opp. Thru       Lt Turn           Start Time                  MAJOR       MINOR   MAJOR        MINOR    MAJOR     MINOR      MAJOR          MINOR         CONFLICT
      6-7am               319             66               6-7am                       NO          NO      NO           YES      NO        NO         NO             YES            NO
      7-8am               394             87               7-8am                       NO          NO      NO           YES      YES       YES        NO             YES            NO
      8-9am               295             71               8-9am                       NO          NO      NO           YES      NO        NO         NO             YES            NO
      9-10am              270             90               9-10am                      NO          NO      NO           YES      NO        YES        NO             YES            NO
      10-11am             278            112               10-11am                     NO          YES     NO           YES      NO        YES        NO             YES            NO
      11am-12pm           282            107               11am-12pm                   NO          YES     NO           YES      NO        YES        NO             YES            NO
      12-1pm              261            108               12-1pm                      NO          YES     NO           YES      NO        YES        NO             YES            NO
      1-2pm               245            109               1-2pm                       NO          YES     NO           YES      NO        YES        NO             YES            NO
      2-3pm               353            136               2-3pm                       NO          YES     NO           YES      YES       YES        NO             YES            NO
      3-4pm               361            144               3-4pm                       NO          YES     NO           YES      YES       YES        NO             YES            NO
      4-5pm               431            160               4-5pm                       YES         YES     NO           YES      YES       YES        NO             YES            NO
      5-6pm               387            138               5-6pm                       NO          YES     NO           YES      YES       YES        NO             YES            NO
      6-7pm               230            108               6-7pm                       NO          YES     NO           YES      NO        YES        NO             YES            NO
      7-8pm               136             72               7-8pm                       NO          NO      NO           YES      NO        NO         NO             YES            NO
     12:00 AM              0               0              12:00 AM                     NO          NO      NO           NO       NO        NO         NO             NO             NO
     12:00 AM              0               0              12:00 AM                     NO          NO      NO           NO       NO        NO         NO             NO             NO

                                                          Threshold Volume             420         105      630         53       336           84        504          42         100,000
                                                          # that Meet Criteria                1                    0                                 0                              0
                                                          Condition Met                      NO                   NO                                NO                             NO



     HOULY VOLUME SUMMARY                                 WARRANT 1: EIGHT HOUR WARRANT:                     SB Lt      vs.    NB Th+Rt
                                                                                                                                                    1C
                        NB Th+Rt        SB Lt                                            1A (70%)             1B (70%)              1A (56%)                   1B (56%)          LEFT-TURN
     Start Time         Opp. Thru       Lt Turn           Start Time                  MAJOR       MINOR   MAJOR        MINOR    MAJOR     MINOR      MAJOR          MINOR         CONFLICT
      6-7am               221             16               6-7am                       NO          NO      NO           NO       NO        NO         NO             NO             NO
      7-8am               339             19               7-8am                       NO          NO      NO           NO       YES       NO         NO             NO             NO
      8-9am               271             10               8-9am                       NO          NO      NO           NO       NO        NO         NO             NO             NO
      9-10am              212             12               9-10am                      NO          NO      NO           NO       NO        NO         NO             NO             NO
      10-11am             257             22               10-11am                     NO          NO      NO           NO       NO        NO         NO             NO             NO
      11am-12pm           299             23               11am-12pm                   NO          NO      NO           NO       NO        NO         NO             NO             NO
      12-1pm              278             25               12-1pm                      NO          NO      NO           NO       NO        NO         NO             NO             NO
      1-2pm               349             20               1-2pm                       NO          NO      NO           NO       YES       NO         NO             NO             NO
      2-3pm               322             25               2-3pm                       NO          NO      NO           NO       NO        NO         NO             NO             NO
      3-4pm               427             13               3-4pm                       YES         NO      NO           NO       YES       NO         NO             NO             NO
      4-5pm               466             25               4-5pm                       YES         NO      NO           NO       YES       NO         NO             NO             NO
      5-6pm               473             21               5-6pm                       YES         NO      NO           NO       YES       NO         NO             NO             NO
      6-7pm               289             18               6-7pm                       NO          NO      NO           NO       NO        NO         NO             NO             NO
      7-8pm               245             11               7-8pm                       NO          NO      NO           NO       NO        NO         NO             NO             NO
     12:00 AM              0               0              12:00 AM                     NO          NO      NO           NO       NO        NO         NO             NO             NO
     12:00 AM              0               0              12:00 AM                     NO          NO      NO           NO       NO        NO         NO             NO             NO

                                                          Threshold Volume             420         105      630         53       336           84        504          42         100,000
        By: TSC                                           # that Meet Criteria                0                    0                                 0                              0
        Date: 7/23/13                                     Condition Met                      NO                   NO                                NO                             NO
 TRAFFIC SIGNAL WARRANT ANALYSIS SUMMARY (WARRANTS 1 - 3)
        2014 Forecasted Traffic (Includes Phase 1 of the CCC)
                                                          STH 60 & STH 16

VOLUME SUMMARY                                               Warrant 1 (Eight Hour Volume - 70% Factor)
For Warrant 1                                                Conditions        Major         Minor        Met?   Hours Met?
       Percent Right Turns -->       0%                      Condition A        420           105         NO          0
START TIME         MAJOR            MINOR                    Condition B        630           53          YES        10
  6-7am               622             56                     Condition C                                  NO          0
  7-8am               839             59                           1A           336           84
  8-9am               647             48                           1B           504           42
  9-10am              584             55
  10-11am             669             67
  11am-12pm           711             60                       Volumes         Major         Minor
  12-1pm              672             72                                       NB/SB         EB/WB
  1-2pm               723             66                                      SB Th+Rt        NB Lt
  2-3pm               836             78                                      NB Th+Rt        SB Lt
  3-4pm               945             67
  4-5pm              1082             74
  5-6pm              1019             58
  6-7pm               645             57
  7-8pm               464             50                     Warrant 2 (Four Hour Volume)                 Met?
12:00 AM               0              0                      (70% Factor)                                 NO
12:00 AM               0              0


VOLUME SUMMARY
For Warrants 2 and 3
        Percent Right Turns -->      0%
Start Time          MAJOR           MINOR
  6-7am                622            56
  7-8am                839            59
  8-9am                647            48
  9-10am               584            55
  10-11am              669            67
  11am-12pm            711            60
  12-1pm               672            72
  1-2pm                723            66
  2-3pm                836            78
  3-4pm                945            67
  4-5pm               1082            74                     Warrant 3 (Peak Hour Volume)                 Met?
  5-6pm               1019            58                     (70% Factor)                                 NO
  6-7pm                645            57
  7-8pm                417            49
12:00 AM                0             0
12:00 AM                0             0




CONDITIONS
< 10,000 Population               Yes
Major Street Speed > 40 mph       Yes
Major Street Lanes                Two or more
Minor Street Lanes                One
T-Intersection (Y/N)              No


                 STH 60 from North
                                                             Left-Turn Conflict Analysis
                              Gas/FF Driveway from East        Opp. Thru x Lt Turn          Threshold     Met?   Hours Met
 STH 16 from West                                              SB Th+Rt          NB Lt       100,000      NO         0
                                                               NB Th+Rt          SB Lt       100,000      NO         0
             STH 16/STH 60 from South
TRAFFIC SIGNAL WARRANT ANALYSIS SUMMARY (WARRANT 7)
    2014 Forecasted Traffic (Includes Phase 1 of the CCC)
                                               STH 60 & STH 16


 WARRANT 7: CRASH EXPERIENCE

                                    1A (56%)             1B (56%)
 Start Time                      MAJOR       MINOR   MAJOR        MINOR
    6-7am                         YES         NO      YES          YES
    7-8am                         YES         NO      YES          YES
    8-9am                         YES         NO      YES          YES
    9-10am                        YES         NO      YES          YES
    10-11am                       YES         NO      YES          YES
    11am-12pm                     YES         NO      YES          YES
    12-1pm                        YES         NO      YES          YES
    1-2pm                         YES         NO      YES          YES
    2-3pm                         YES         NO      YES          YES
    3-4pm                         YES         NO      YES          YES
    4-5pm                         YES         NO      YES          YES
    5-6pm                         YES         NO      YES          YES
    6-7pm                         YES         NO      YES          YES
    7-8pm                         YES         NO      NO           YES
 Threshold Volume                 336          84     504           42
 # that Meet Criteria (Need 8)           0                   13
 12-Month Crashes  5?                             YES
 Condition Met                                    YES
TRAFFIC SIGNAL WARRANT VOLUME CALCULATIONS: STH 60 & STH 16                                                                                                                                    Page 1

                                                                                                                                                           AADT    AADT                        By: TSC
                                                                                                                                                            IN     OUT                   Date: 7/23/13
                                               2013 Existing Traffic                                                                                         0       0

                                                                                                                                              ---
                                                                                                                                                            0%
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                    0%
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                        <- % Reduction, Sensitivity Test


                 STH 60 from North      Gas/FF Driveway from East   STH 16/STH 60 from South      STH 16 from West       Intersectio                      % AADT % AADT
Start Time    Right    Thru      Left    Right    Thru     Left     Right    Thru      Left    Right   Thru      Left      n Totals     IN          OUT     IN    OUT Notes
 6-7am         8        302       16      23       7        48        63      155       55       38      5        5          725         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 7-8am         21       363       19      20       16       42        50      284       66       59      4        9          953         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 8-9am         13       273       10      13       4        43        47      220       45       44      5        10         727         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 9-10am        10       247       12      8        2        52        43      166       54       71      7        19         691         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 10-11am       23       237       22      21       7        59        51      202       61       69      11       13         776         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 11am-12pm     10       254       23      26       11       48        74      221       56       67      4        13         807         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 12-1pm        14       229       25      36       8        63        76      198       57       67      7        20         800         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 1-2pm         14       213       20      32       6        59        76      269       63       67      6        18         843         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 2-3pm         15       319       25      24       9        68        58      260       75       61      11       12         937         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 3-4pm         13       324       13      23       5        61        72      349       78       87      10       22        1057         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 4-5pm         18       388       25      27       7        66        64      396       94      115      15       21        1236         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 5-6pm         14       348       21      29       6        51        68      399       72       96      5        29        1138         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 6-7pm         15       197       18      22       7        49        56      229       52       56      1        11         713         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 7-8pm         3        121       11      17       7        42        45      196       41       39      3        13         538         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
                                                                                                                                         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
                                                                                                                                         0           0     0.0%   0.0%

IN or OUT
PERECENTAGE



                                                                                                                                       1.1%         GR     AADT    AADT
                                                                                                                                        21          Yr      IN     OUT
                                   Background Traffic Growth to 2034                                                                                         0       0

                                                                                                                                              ---
                                                                                                                                                            0%
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                    0%
                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                        <- % Reduction, Sensitivity Test


                 STH 60 from North      Gas/FF Driveway from East   STH 16/STH 60 from South      STH 16 from West       Intersectio                      % AADT % AADT
Start Time    Right    Thru      Left    Right    Thru      Left    Right    Thru      Left    Right   Thru      Left      n Totals     IN          OUT     IN    OUT Notes
 6-7am          2        78       4        6        2       12        16       40       14      10        1        1         186         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 7-8am          5        94       5        5        4       11        13       73       17      15        1        2         245         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 8-9am          3        71       3        3        1       11        12       57       12      11        1        3         188         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 9-10am         3        64       3        2        1       13        11       43       14      18        2        5         179         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 10-11am        6        61       6        5        2       15        13       52       16      18        3        3         200         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 11am-12pm      3        66       6        7        3       12        19       57       14      17        1        3         208         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 12-1pm         4        59       6        9        2       16        20       51       15      17        2        5         206         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 1-2pm          4        55       5        8        2       15        20       69       16      17        2        5         218         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 2-3pm          4        82       6        6        2       18        15       67       19      16        3        3         241         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 3-4pm          3        84       3        6        1       16        19       90       20      22        3        6         273         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 4-5pm          5       100       6        7        2       17        17      102       24      30        4        5         319         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 5-6pm          4        90       5        7        2       13        18      103       19      25        1        7         294         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 6-7pm          4        51       5        6        2       13        14       59       13      14        0        3         184         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
 7-8pm          1        31       3        4        2       11        12       51       11      10        1        3         140         0           0     0.0%   0.0%
                0        0        0        0        0       0         0        0        0       0         0        0          0          0           0     0.0%   0.0%
                0        0        0        0        0       0         0        0        0       0         0        0          0          0           0     0.0%   0.0%

IN or OUT
PERECENTAGE



                                                                                                                                                           AADT    AADT
                                                                                                                                                            IN     OUT


                                                                                                                                              ---
                                                                                                                                                             0       0
                                                                                                                                                                           <- % Reduction, Pass-by


                 STH 60 from North      Gas/FF Driveway from East   STH 16/STH 60 from South      STH 16 from West       Intersectio                      % AADT % AADT
Start Time    Right    Thru      Left    Right    Thru      Left    Right    Thru      Left    Right   Thru      Left      n Totals     IN          OUT     IN    OUT Notes
 6-7am          0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0          0          0           0
 7-8am          0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0          0          0           0
 8-9am          0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0          0          0           0
 9-10am         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0          0          0           0
 10-11am        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0          0          0           0
 11am-12pm      0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0          0          0           0
 12-1pm         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0          0          0           0
 1-2pm          0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0          0          0           0
 2-3pm          0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0          0          0           0
 3-4pm          0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0          0          0           0
 4-5pm          0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0          0          0           0
 5-6pm          0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0          0          0           0
 6-7pm          0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0          0          0           0
 7-8pm          0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0          0          0           0
                0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0          0          0           0     0.0%     0.0%
                0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0          0          0           0     0.0%     0.0%

IN or OUT
PERECENTAGE



                                                                                                                                                           AADT    AADT
                                                                                                                                                            IN     OUT
                        CCC Full Buildout (By 2024) - Shopping Center                                                                                      5045    5040

                                                                                                                                              ---
                                                                                                                                                           26%
                                                                                                                                                           3750
                                                                                                                                                                   26% <- % Reduction, Linked Trips, PB
                                                                                                                                                                   3745
                 STH 60 from North      Gas/FF Driveway from East   STH 16/STH 60 from South      STH 16 from West       Intersectio                      % AADT % AADT
Start Time    Right    Thru      Left    Right    Thru      Left    Right    Thru      Left    Right   Thru      Left      n Totals     IN          OUT      IN    OUT Notes
 6-7am         10        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        40       25       0       5          80         55           35     1.5%   1.0% <-- From WisDOT
 7-8am         20        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        65       65       0       20         170        95           90     2.5%   2.4% <-- From WisDOT
 8-9am         30        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       100       65       0       20         215       145           90     3.9%   2.4% <-- From WisDOT
 9-10am        40        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       145      100       0       30         315       205          140     5.5%   3.7% <-- From WisDOT
 10-11am       55        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       200      170       0       50         475       285          245     7.6%   6.5% <<Based on ITE 820
 11am-12pm     55        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       200      220       0       65         540       285          315     7.6%   8.4% <<Based on ITE 820
 12-1pm        55        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       200      215       0       60         530       285          305     7.6%   8.2% <<Based on ITE 820
 1-2pm         50        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       180      195       0       55         480       260          280     6.9%   7.5% <<Based on ITE 820
 2-3pm         70        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       240      205       0       60         575       340          290     9.0%   7.8% <<Based on ITE 820
 3-4pm         70        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       250      250       0       70         640       360          355     9.6%   9.5% <<Based on ITE 820
 4-5pm         75        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       255      275       0       80         685       365          390     9.7%  10.4% <<Based on ITE 820
 5-6pm         75        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       270      285       0       80         710       385          410    10.3% 11.0% <<Based on ITE 820
 6-7pm         60        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       210      210       0       60         540       300          300     8.0%   8.0% <<Estimated
 7-8pm         40        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       135      130       0       35         340       190          185     5.0%   5.0% <<Estimated
               0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0           0          0           0      0.0%   0.0%
               0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0           0          0           0      0.0%   0.0%

IN or OUT       IN                                                                      IN      OUT               OUT
PERECENTAGE   20.0%                                                                   70.0%    70.0%             20.0%
TRAFFIC SIGNAL WARRANT VOLUME CALCULATIONS: STH 60 & STH 16                                                                                                                                  Page 2

                                                                                                                                                           AADT     AADT                       By: TSC
                                                                                                                                                             IN     OUT                   Date: 7/23/13
                         CCC Full/Remaining Buildout (By 2024) - Office                                                                                     430      430

                                                                                                                                              ---
                                                                                                                                                           20%
                                                                                                                                                            345
                                                                                                                                                                    20% <- % Reduction, Linked Trips
                                                                                                                                                                     345
                  STH 60 from North      Gas/FF Driveway from East   STH 16/STH 60 from South      STH 16 from West       Intersectio                     % AADT % AADT
Start Time     Right    Thru      Left    Right    Thru      Left    Right    Thru      Left    Right   Thru      Left      n Totals    IN          OUT      IN    OUT Notes
 6-7am          5         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        20      5         0       0          30        25           5      6.7%   1.0% <-- From WisDOT
 7-8am          10        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        40      5         0       0          55        55           10    15.7%   2.6% <-- From WisDOT
 8-9am          10        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        30      5         0       0          45        45           10    12.8%   3.5% <-- From WisDOT
 9-10am         5         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        10      5         0       0          20        15           10     4.4%   3.1% <-- From WisDOT
 10-11am        5         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        10      10        0       5          30        15           15     4.3%   4.1% <-- From WisDOT
 11am-12pm      5         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        10      20        0       5          40        15           25     4.7%   7.6% <-- From WisDOT
 12-1pm         5         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        20      20        0       5          50        30           30     9.2%   9.1% <-- From WisDOT
 1-2pm          5         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        20      15        0       5          45        30           20     8.1%   6.1% <-- From WisDOT
 2-3pm          5         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        15      10        0       5          35        20           15     5.2%   4.8% <-- From WisDOT
 3-4pm          5         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        10      20        0       5          40        15           25     3.9%   7.6% <-- From WisDOT
 4-5pm          5         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        10      40        0       10         65        15           55     4.0%  15.4% <-- From WisDOT
 5-6pm          5         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        15      40        0       10         70        20           55     5.8%  16.5% <-- From WisDOT
 6-7pm          0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        5       5         0       0          10         5           5      2.0%   2.0% <<Estimated
 7-8pm          0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0         0       0           0         0           0      0.0%   0.0% <<Estimated
                0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0         0       0           0         0           0      0.0%   0.0%
                0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0         0       0           0         0           0      0.0%   0.0%

IN or OUT        IN                                                                      IN      OUT               OUT
PERECENTAGE    20.0%                                                                   70.0%    70.0%             20.0%



                                                                                                                                                           AADT     AADT
                                                                                                                                                            IN      OUT
              CCC Full/Remaining Buildout (By 2024) - Home Improvement                                                                                     1240     1240

                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                           20%      20% <- % Reduction, Linked Trips
                                                                                                                                                            990      990
                                                                                                                                              ---
                  STH 60 from North      Gas/FF Driveway from East   STH 16/STH 60 from South      STH 16 from West       Intersectio                     % AADT % AADT
Start Time     Right    Thru      Left    Right    Thru      Left    Right    Thru      Left    Right   Thru      Left      n Totals     IN         OUT      IN    OUT Notes
  6-7am         5         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        15      5         0       0          25         20          10     1.9%   0.8% <-- From WisDOT
  7-8am         5         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        25      10        0       5          45         35          15     3.5%   1.5% <-- From WisDOT
  8-9am         10        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        35      25        0       5          75         50          35     4.9%   3.5% <-- From WisDOT
  9-10am        10        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        40      40        0       10         100        55          55     5.4%   5.6% <-- From WisDOT
  10-11am       15        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        45      45        0       15         120        65          65     6.6%   6.4% <-- From WisDOT
  11am-12pm     20        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        65      55        0       15         155        90          75     9.3%   7.7% <-- From WisDOT
  12-1pm        20        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        75      80        0       25         200       105         115    10.5% 11.4% <-- From WisDOT
  1-2pm         15        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        55      70        0       20         160        80         100     8.0%  10.2% <-- From WisDOT
  2-3pm         15        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        55      45        0       15         130        75          65     7.7%   6.8% <-- From WisDOT
  3-4pm         10        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        40      55        0       15         120        60          75     6.2%   7.7% <-- From WisDOT
  4-5pm         15        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        45      50        0       15         125        65          70     6.5%   7.3% <-- From WisDOT
  5-6pm         15        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        55      60        0       15         145        75          85     7.4%   8.5% <-- From WisDOT
  6-7pm         10        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        40      40        0       10         100        60          60     6.0%   6.0% <<Estimated
  7-8pm         10        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        30      30        0       10         80         40          40     4.0%   4.0% <<Estimated
12:00 AM        0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0         0       0           0          0          0      0.0%   0.0%
12:00 AM        0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0         0       0           0          0          0      0.0%   0.0%

IN or OUT        IN                                                                      IN      OUT               OUT
PERECENTAGE    20.0%                                                                   70.0%    70.0%             20.0%



                                                                                                                                                           AADT     AADT
                                                                                                                                                             IN     OUT
                       CCC Full/Remaining Buildout (By 2024) - Fast Food                                                                                    690      685

                                                                                                                                              ---
                                                                                                                                                           20%
                                                                                                                                                            550
                                                                                                                                                                    20% <- % Reduction, Linked Trips
                                                                                                                                                                     550
                  STH 60 from North      Gas/FF Driveway from East   STH 16/STH 60 from South      STH 16 from West       Intersectio                     % AADT   % AADT
Start Time     Right    Thru      Left    Right    Thru      Left    Right    Thru      Left    Right   Thru      Left      n Totals    IN          OUT      IN      OUT Notes
  6-7am         0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0         0       0           0         0           0      0.4%     0.4% <-- From WisDOT
  7-8am         0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0         0       0           0         0           0      0.4%     0.4% <-- From WisDOT
  8-9am         5         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        10      5         0       0          20        15           5      2.5%     0.9% <-- From WisDOT
  9-10am        0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        5       5         0       0          10         5           5      1.2%     0.9% <-- From WisDOT
  10-11am       5         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        15      10        0       5          35        20           15     3.3%     3.0% <-- From WisDOT
  11am-12pm     15        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        45      40        0       10         110       65           60    11.5%    10.8% <-- From WisDOT
  12-1pm        20        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        65      85        0       25         195       95          120    17.3%    21.6% <-- From WisDOT
  1-2pm         10        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        30      40        0       10         90        40           55     7.4%     9.9% <-- From WisDOT
  2-3pm         5         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        15      20        0       5          45        20           30     3.3%     5.6% <-- From WisDOT
  3-4pm         5         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        20      25        0       5          55        30           35     5.8%     6.0% <-- From WisDOT
  4-5pm         10        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        30      20        0       5          65        45           30     8.6%     5.2% <-- From WisDOT
  5-6pm         15        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        60      45        0       15         135       85           65    15.2%    12.1% <-- From WisDOT
  6-7pm         15        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        50      50        0       15         130       70           70    13.0%    13.0% <<Estimated
  7-8pm         10        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        30      30        0       10         80        45           45     8.0%     8.0% <<Estimated
12:00 AM        0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0         0       0           0         0           0      0.0%     0.0%
12:00 AM        0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0         0       0           0         0           0      0.0%     0.0%

IN or OUT        IN                                                                      IN      OUT               OUT
PERECENTAGE    20.0%                                                                   70.0%    70.0%             20.0%



                                                                                                                                                           AADT     AADT
                                                                                                                                                             IN     OUT
                 CCC Full/Remaining Buildout (By 2024) - Medical Office                                                                                     555      560

                                                                                                                                              ---
                                                                                                                                                           20%
                                                                                                                                                            445
                                                                                                                                                                    20% <- % Reduction, Linked Trips
                                                                                                                                                                     450
                  STH 60 from North      Gas/FF Driveway from East   STH 16/STH 60 from South      STH 16 from West       Intersectio                     % AADT % AADT
Start Time     Right    Thru      Left    Right    Thru      Left    Right    Thru      Left    Right   Thru      Left      n Totals    IN          OUT      IN    OUT Notes
  6-7am         5         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        10      5         0       0          20        15           10     3.0%   2.0% <-- From WisDOT
  7-8am         10        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        30      15        0       5          60        45           20    10.0%   4.0% <-- From WisDOT
  8-9am         5         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        25      10        0       5          45        35           15     7.5%   3.0% <-- From WisDOT
  9-10am        5         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        25      15        0       5          50        35           20     7.5%   4.0% <-- From WisDOT
  10-11am       10        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        30      25        0       5          70        40           35     8.5%   8.0% <-- From WisDOT
  11am-12pm     10        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        35      30        0       10         85        50           40    11.0%   9.0% <-- From WisDOT
  12-1pm        10        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        30      30        0       10         80        40           45     9.0%  10.0% <-- From WisDOT
  1-2pm         10        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        35      30        0       10         85        50           40    11.0%   9.0% <-- From WisDOT
  2-3pm         5         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        20      30        0       10         65        30           40     7.0%   9.0% <-- From WisDOT
  3-4pm         5         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        10      30        0       10         55        15           45     3.8%   9.5% <-- From WisDOT
  4-5pm         5         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        10      30        0       10         55        15           45     3.0%  10.0% <-- From WisDOT
  5-6pm         5         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        10      20        0       5          40        15           30     3.0%   7.0% <-- From WisDOT
  6-7pm         0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        5       10        0       5          20         5           15     1.0%   3.0% <<Estimated
  7-8pm         0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0         0       0           0         0           0      0.0%   0.0% <<Estimated
12:00 AM        0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0         0       0           0         0           0      0.0%   0.0%
12:00 AM        0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0         0       0           0         0           0      0.0%   0.0%

IN or OUT        IN                                                                      IN      OUT               OUT
PERECENTAGE    20.0%                                                                   70.0%    70.0%             20.0%
TRAFFIC SIGNAL WARRANT VOLUME SUMMARY:                                                                    STH 60 & STH 16
                                                                                                                                                                              1

                               2034 Forecasted Traffic (Includes Full Buildout of the CCC)
                                                                                                                                           
                               MAJOR

                               MINOR

                             STH 60 from North               Gas/FF Driveway from East             STH 16/STH 60 from South           STH 16 from West             Intersection
     Start Time           Right    Thru      Left            Right      Thru      Left             Right    Thru       Left       Right     Thru       Left           Totals
      6-7am                 35           380         20        29                9     60           79       195         154       88           6          11         1066
      7-8am                 71           457         24        25                20    53           63       357         243      169           5          41         1528
      8-9am                 76           344         13        16                5     54           59       277         257      165           6          43         1315
      9-10am                73           311         15        10                3     65           54       209         293      254           9          69         1365
      10-11am              119           298         28        26                9     74           64       254         377      347           14         96         1706
      11am-12pm            118           320         29        33                14    60           93       278         425      449           5         121         1945
      12-1pm               128           288         31        45                10    79           96       249         462      514           9         150         2061
      1-2pm                108           268         25        40                8     74           96       338         399      434           8         123         1921
      2-3pm                119           401         31        30                11    86           73       327         439      387           14        110         2028
      3-4pm                111           408         16        29                6     77           91       439         428      489           13        133         2240
      4-5pm                133           488         31        34                9     83           81       498         468      560           19        146         2550
      5-6pm                133           438         26        36                8     64           86       502         501      571           6         161         2532
      6-7pm                104           248         23        28                9     62           70       288         375      385           1         104         1697
      7-8pm                 64           152         14        21                9     53           57       247         247      239           4          71         1178




     CONDITIONS
     < 10,000 Population               Yes                              STH 60: 45 mph
     Major Street Speed > 40           Yes                              STH 16: 55 mph?
     Major Street Lanes                Two or more                      NB/SB: LT + TH + TH + RT
     Minor Street Lanes                One                              EB/WB: LT/TH + RT
     T-Intersection (Y/N)              No                               Columbia Population: 4991



     HOULY VOLUME SUMMARY                                 WARRANT 1: EIGHT HOUR WARRANT:                   MAJOR         vs.     MINOR
                                                                                                                                                     1C
         Percent Right Turns -->         0%                                              1A (70%)              1B (70%)              1A (56%)                   1B (56%)
     Start Time          MAJOR          MINOR             Start Time                  MAJOR       MINOR    MAJOR        MINOR    MAJOR     MINOR      MAJOR          MINOR
      6-7am               863             69               6-7am                       YES         NO       YES          YES      YES       NO         YES            YES
      7-8am               1215            73               7-8am                       YES         NO       YES          YES      YES       NO         YES            YES
      8-9am               1026            59               8-9am                       YES         NO       YES          YES      YES       NO         YES            YES
      9-10am              955             78               9-10am                      YES         NO       YES          YES      YES       NO         YES            YES
      10-11am             1140           110               10-11am                     YES         YES      YES          YES      YES       YES        YES            YES
      11am-12pm           1263           126               11am-12pm                   YES         YES      YES          YES      YES       YES        YES            YES
      12-1pm              1254           159               12-1pm                      YES         YES      YES          YES      YES       YES        YES            YES
      1-2pm               1234           131               1-2pm                       YES         YES      YES          YES      YES       YES        YES            YES
      2-3pm               1390           124               2-3pm                       YES         YES      YES          YES      YES       YES        YES            YES
      3-4pm               1493           146               3-4pm                       YES         YES      YES          YES      YES       YES        YES            YES
      4-5pm               1699           165               4-5pm                       YES         YES      YES          YES      YES       YES        YES            YES
      5-6pm               1686           167               5-6pm                       YES         YES      YES          YES      YES       YES        YES            YES
      6-7pm               1108           105               6-7pm                       YES         NO       YES          YES      YES       YES        YES            YES
      7-8pm               781             75               7-8pm                       YES         NO       YES          YES      YES       NO         YES            YES
     12:00 AM              0              0               12:00 AM                     NO          NO       NO           NO       NO        NO         NO             NO
     12:00 AM              0              0               12:00 AM                     NO          NO       NO           NO       NO        NO         NO             NO

                                                          Threshold Volume             420         105       630         53       336           84      504            42
                                                          # that Meet Criteria                8                     14                                9
                                                          Condition Met                      YES                   YES                               YES



     HOURLY VOLUME SUMMARY                                WARRANT 1: EIGHT HOUR WARRANT:                      NB Lt      vs.    SB Th+Rt
                                                                                                                                                     1C
                        SB Th+Rt        NB Lt                                            1A (70%)              1B (70%)              1A (56%)                   1B (56%)          LEFT-TURN
     Start Time         Opp. Thru       Lt Turn           Start Time                  MAJOR       MINOR    MAJOR        MINOR    MAJOR     MINOR      MAJOR          MINOR         CONFLICT
      6-7am               415            154               6-7am                       NO          YES      NO           YES      YES       YES        NO             YES            NO
      7-8am               528            243               7-8am                       YES         YES      NO           YES      YES       YES        YES            YES            YES
      8-9am               420            257               8-9am                       NO          YES      NO           YES      YES       YES        NO             YES            YES
      9-10am              384            293               9-10am                      NO          YES      NO           YES      YES       YES        NO             YES            YES
      10-11am             417            377               10-11am                     NO          YES      NO           YES      YES       YES        NO             YES            YES
      11am-12pm           438            425               11am-12pm                   YES         YES      NO           YES      YES       YES        NO             YES            YES
      12-1pm              416            462               12-1pm                      NO          YES      NO           YES      YES       YES        NO             YES            YES
      1-2pm               376            399               1-2pm                       NO          YES      NO           YES      YES       YES        NO             YES            YES
      2-3pm               520            439               2-3pm                       YES         YES      NO           YES      YES       YES        YES            YES            YES
      3-4pm               519            428               3-4pm                       YES         YES      NO           YES      YES       YES        YES            YES            YES
      4-5pm               621            468               4-5pm                       YES         YES      NO           YES      YES       YES        YES            YES            YES
      5-6pm               571            501               5-6pm                       YES         YES      NO           YES      YES       YES        YES            YES            YES
      6-7pm               352            375               6-7pm                       NO          YES      NO           YES      YES       YES        NO             YES            YES
      7-8pm               216            247               7-8pm                       NO          YES      NO           YES      NO        YES        NO             YES            NO
     12:00 AM              0               0              12:00 AM                     NO          NO       NO           NO       NO        NO         NO             NO             NO
     12:00 AM              0               0              12:00 AM                     NO          NO       NO           NO       NO        NO         NO             NO             NO

                                                          Threshold Volume             420         105       630         53       336           84        504          42         100,000
                                                          # that Meet Criteria                6                     0                                 5                             12
                                                          Condition Met                      NO                    NO                                NO                            YES



     HOULY VOLUME SUMMARY                                 WARRANT 1: EIGHT HOUR WARRANT:                      SB Lt      vs.    NB Th+Rt
                                                                                                                                                     1C
                        NB Th+Rt        SB Lt                                            1A (70%)              1B (70%)              1A (56%)                   1B (56%)          LEFT-TURN
     Start Time         Opp. Thru       Lt Turn           Start Time                  MAJOR       MINOR    MAJOR        MINOR    MAJOR     MINOR      MAJOR          MINOR         CONFLICT
      6-7am               274             20               6-7am                       NO          NO       NO           NO       NO        NO         NO             NO             NO
      7-8am               420             24               7-8am                       NO          NO       NO           NO       YES       NO         NO             NO             NO
      8-9am               336             13               8-9am                       NO          NO       NO           NO       NO        NO         NO             NO             NO
      9-10am              263             15               9-10am                      NO          NO       NO           NO       NO        NO         NO             NO             NO
      10-11am             318             28               10-11am                     NO          NO       NO           NO       NO        NO         NO             NO             NO
      11am-12pm           371             29               11am-12pm                   NO          NO       NO           NO       YES       NO         NO             NO             NO
      12-1pm              345             31               12-1pm                      NO          NO       NO           NO       YES       NO         NO             NO             NO
      1-2pm               434             25               1-2pm                       YES         NO       NO           NO       YES       NO         NO             NO             NO
      2-3pm               400             31               2-3pm                       NO          NO       NO           NO       YES       NO         NO             NO             NO
      3-4pm               530             16               3-4pm                       YES         NO       NO           NO       YES       NO         YES            NO             NO
      4-5pm               579             31               4-5pm                       YES         NO       NO           NO       YES       NO         YES            NO             NO
      5-6pm               588             26               5-6pm                       YES         NO       NO           NO       YES       NO         YES            NO             NO
      6-7pm               358             23               6-7pm                       NO          NO       NO           NO       YES       NO         NO             NO             NO
      7-8pm               304             14               7-8pm                       NO          NO       NO           NO       NO        NO         NO             NO             NO
     12:00 AM              0               0              12:00 AM                     NO          NO       NO           NO       NO        NO         NO             NO             NO
     12:00 AM              0               0              12:00 AM                     NO          NO       NO           NO       NO        NO         NO             NO             NO

                                                          Threshold Volume             420         105       630         53       336           84        504          42         100,000
        By: TSC                                           # that Meet Criteria                0                     0                                 0                              0
        Date: 7/23/13                                     Condition Met                      NO                    NO                                NO                             NO
 TRAFFIC SIGNAL WARRANT ANALYSIS SUMMARY (WARRANTS 1 - 3)
      2034 Forecasted Traffic (Includes Full Buildout of the CCC)
                                                          STH 60 & STH 16

VOLUME SUMMARY                                               Warrant 1 (Eight Hour Volume - 70% Factor)
For Warrant 1                                                Conditions        Major         Minor        Met?   Hours Met?
       Percent Right Turns -->       0%                      Condition A        420           105         YES         8
START TIME         MAJOR            MINOR                    Condition B        630           53          YES        14
  6-7am               863             69                     Condition C                                  YES         9
  7-8am              1215             73                           1A           336           84
  8-9am              1026             59                           1B           504           42
  9-10am              955             78
  10-11am            1140            110
  11am-12pm          1263            126                       Volumes         Major         Minor
  12-1pm             1254            159                                       NB/SB         EB/WB
  1-2pm              1234            131                                      SB Th+Rt        NB Lt
  2-3pm              1390            124                                      NB Th+Rt        SB Lt
  3-4pm              1493            146
  4-5pm              1699            165
  5-6pm              1686            167
  6-7pm              1108            105
  7-8pm               781             75                     Warrant 2 (Four Hour Volume)                 Met?   Points extend

12:00 AM               0              0                      (70% Factor)                                 YES    beyond chart area

12:00 AM               0              0


VOLUME SUMMARY
For Warrants 2 and 3
        Percent Right Turns -->      0%
Start Time          MAJOR           MINOR
  6-7am                863            69
  7-8am               1215            73
  8-9am               1026            59
  9-10am               955            78
  10-11am             1140           110
  11am-12pm           1263           126
  12-1pm              1254           159
  1-2pm               1234           131
  2-3pm               1390           124
  3-4pm               1493           146
  4-5pm               1699           165                     Warrant 3 (Peak Hour Volume)                 Met?
  5-6pm               1686           167                     (70% Factor)                                 YES
  6-7pm               1108           105
  7-8pm                417            49
12:00 AM                0             0
12:00 AM                0             0




CONDITIONS
< 10,000 Population               Yes
Major Street Speed > 40 mph       Yes
Major Street Lanes                Two or more
Minor Street Lanes                One
T-Intersection (Y/N)              No


                 STH 60 from North
                                                             Left-Turn Conflict Analysis
                              Gas/FF Driveway from East        Opp. Thru x Lt Turn          Threshold     Met?    Hours Met
 STH 16 from West                                              SB Th+Rt          NB Lt       100,000      YES        12
                                                               NB Th+Rt          SB Lt       100,000      NO          0
             STH 16/STH 60 from South
TRAFFIC SIGNAL WARRANT ANALYSIS SUMMARY (WARRANT 7)
   2034 Forecasted Traffic (Includes Full Buildout of the CCC)
                                               STH 60 & STH 16

 WARRANT 7: CRASH EXPERIENCE

                                    1A (56%)             1B (56%)
 Start Time                      MAJOR       MINOR   MAJOR        MINOR
    6-7am                         YES         NO      YES          YES
    7-8am                         YES         NO      YES          YES
    8-9am                         YES         NO      YES          YES
    9-10am                        YES         NO      YES          YES
    10-11am                       YES         YES     YES          YES
    11am-12pm                     YES         YES     YES          YES
    12-1pm                        YES         YES     YES          YES
    1-2pm                         YES         YES     YES          YES
    2-3pm                         YES         YES     YES          YES
    3-4pm                         YES         YES     YES          YES
    4-5pm                         YES         YES     YES          YES
    5-6pm                         YES         YES     YES          YES
    6-7pm                         YES         YES     YES          YES
    7-8pm                         YES         NO      YES          YES
 Threshold Volume                 336          84     504           42
 # that Meet Criteria (Need 8)           0                   14
 12-Month Crashes  5?                             YES
 Condition Met                                    YES
                              APPENDIX E


               ICE ANALYSIS WORKSHEET




Traffic Analysis & Design, Inc.            APPENDIX
               Int
                 tersect          l Evalu
                             ontrol
                       tion Co          uation Work
                                                  ksheet
               Revised
                     d: June 5, 2013                                                                                                                                                     Prepared By
                                                                                                                                                                                                  By
                                                                                                                                                                                                        TADI                                             Date
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            e 22-Aug-13
                                                                                                                                  SPELL CHECK
NOTE: Attach Item
                ms in BLUE as
                            s appendices
                                       s
                                                                                                                                                                                                        TSC



 Inters
      section:     ST           6
                    TH 16 & STH 60                                                    t ID:
                                                                         Design Project
                                                                         D                       1401-
                                                                                                     -02-02                    Pr            ption:
                                                                                                                                roject Descrip         Porta                       d to Industriall Drive, Colum
                                                                                                                                                                      bus, Hall Road
                                                                                                                                                           age - Columb                                        mbia County

                     or
                 Facto                 Existing
                                              g Traffic Contr          o Build)
                                                            rol TWSC (No                                                                                       Alternativ
                                                                                                                                                                        ve 1 TWSC + Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                    S      Improv
                                                                                                                                                                                                vements (Build)
                 Safet
                     ty
                                              hes occurred in 5-year per
                                       13 crash                            riod from 20008 through 20  012 with 6 PD              a 1 fatality. Trucks were
                                                                                                                    DO, 6 injury, and                        e involved neaarly equally to cars. 61.5%  % of the crash
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     hes were angled crashes, a and the majority of the cra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ashes at
 Crash diagram tren
                  nds
                                       the intersection occu urred from ve ehicles travell
                                                                                         ling to and fro
                                                                                                       om the Colum mbus West Travel Center. At least 3 of th t crashes we ere due to lac ck of sight dis
                                                                                                                                                                                                        stance/obstruucted views (A Appendix A).
 Percent and type ofo crashes          N/A                                                                                                                       Positively offset left turn lanes could d reduce left-turn crashess by 38% and injury crashes by 36%
 expeccted to be redduced by                                                                                                                                     (http://wwww.fhwa.dot.gov/publicat      tions/researc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ch/safety/090036/). Offset right-turn lan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             nes lack resea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          arch to
 altern
      native                                                                                                                                                     deermine their effectiv  veness.
 Accesss near the inttersection and    The east              ntersection is a driveway fo
                                               t leg of the in                           or the Columbus West Tra   avel Center, which
                                                                                                                                 w      includess a BP gas station/truck sto
                                                                                                                                                                           op and an Arb   by's fast-food
                                                                                                                                                                                                        d restaurant. A driveway t to the Columbus Commerc   ce Center, whhich
 side road traffic im
                    mpacts             currentlly includes a Shopko
                                                             S        is loca
                                                                            ated on STH 660 about 700 0 feet west of STH 16. The southbound ramps/interh     hcange to USH 151 is locat   ted on STH 16  6 about 1,0000 feet south o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   of STH 60.
                                       The med dian is 48' widde, which is la
                                                                            arge enough to hold at lea ast 2 vehicles making a 2-s              n movement at the existing TWSC inter
                                                                                                                                  stage left-turn                                         rsection. Althhough the me edian is not w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  wide enough tto store trucks, many were e observed
 Additional conside
                  erations             to wait in
                                               i the median  n anyway wh ile making a l  left-turn from
                                                                                                      m the travel ceenter. While waiting, they y blocked norrthbound lane es on STH 16.

        Operational l Analysis
 Discus
      ss the Warran nt Analysis        N/A                                                                                                                     N/A
 (Attac
      ch AWSC/Sign  nal warrants)
 LOS, d             io and 95th
      delay, v/c rati
 percentile queues for each             AM PE
                                            EAK                  EB                       WB                         NB                         SB              AM PEAK
                                                                                                                                                                      K                 EB                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WB                        NB                        SB
 movement. (Attach  h traffic coun
                                 nt,                     LT      TH      R
                                                                         RT       LT      TH        RT
                                                                                                     T         LT    TH      RT       LT        TH     RT                       LT      TH       RT       LT      TH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  T        RT        LT     TH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             H      RT        LT      TH      RT
      ast and analysis
 foreca                                 LOS               F       F       B        F       F        B          B      A      A        A          A     A        LOS              F       F       B         F       F       B         B       A      A         B        A      A
      s/outputs)
 inputs                                 Delay (s)
                                              (         143.                                                                                                            )
                                                                                                                                                                Delay (s)      143.
                                                               143.5    12
                                                                         2.1     2161    2161        0
                                                                                                    10        11.4   0        0       8.3       0       0                              1
                                                                                                                                                                                       143.5    12.1    2161     2161      10        11.4   0        0        8.3     0       0
                                                         5                                                                                                                      5
                                        v/c Rattio      1.04    1.04    0..24    4.80     4.80       02
                                                                                                   0.0        0.42   0        0      0.02       0       0               o
                                                                                                                                                                v/c Ratio      1.04    1.04     0.24
                                                                                                                                                                                                   4     4.80    4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4.80     0.02       0.42   0        0       0.02     0       0
                                        Queue e (ft)    200'    200'     2
                                                                         25'     270'     270'      5'         50'   0        0       5'        0       0       Queue (f ft)   200'    200'      25'     270'    270'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2         5'         50'   0        0        5'      0       0
                                          Int. LOS
                                               L                                                          F                                                     Int. LOS

                                        PM PEAK                 EB                        WB                         NB                         SB              PM PEAK
                                                                                                                                                                      K                 EB                       WB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W                          NB                        SB
                                                        LT      TH       R
                                                                         RT       LT       TH       RT
                                                                                                     T         LT    TH      RT       LT        TH     RT                       LT      TH       RT       LT      TH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  T        RT        LT     TH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             H      RT        LT      TH      RT
                                        LOS              F       F        C        F        F       B           B     A      A        A          A     A        LOS              F       F       C         F       F       B         B       A      A         A        A      A
                                        Delay (s)
                                               (       2457    2457     166.7   717.7    717.7     10.3       12.6    0      0       8.71        0     0                )
                                                                                                                                                                Delay (s)                                        717.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7
                                                                                                                                                                               2457    2457     16.7    717.7             10.3       12.6   0        0       8.71     0       0
                                        v/c Rattio     6.18    6.18     0.5
                                                                          58     2.17    2.17      0.0
                                                                                                     03       0.53    0      0       0.03        0     0                                                           7
                                        Queue e (ft)   1120'   1120'     9 5'    270'     270'      5'         80'    0      0        5'         0     0        v/c Ratio
                                                                                                                                                                        o      6.18    6.18     0.58
                                                                                                                                                                                                   8     2.17    2.17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2        0.03       0.53   0        0       0.03     0       0
                                         Int. LOS                                                         F                                                     Queue (f ft)   1120'   1
                                                                                                                                                                                       1120'     95'     270'    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 270'      5'         80'   0        0        5'      0       0
                                                                                                                                                                Int. LOS                                                         F
                                       Notes: Traffic
                                              T                        B1), Forecaste
                                                           s (Appendix B
                                                      Counts                        es (Appendix B2), TWSC No
                                                                                                            o Build Worksheets (Appendix C2)
                                                                                                                                                               Notes: Tra
                                                                                                                                                                        affic Counts (A
                                                                                                                                                                                      Appendix B1)), Forecastes (Appendix B2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2), TWSC Build Worksheets (Appendix C3)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1
  1401-
      -02-02
              Factor                 Existing Traffic Control TWSC (No Build)                                                                       Alternative 1 TWSC + Safety Improvements (Build)

Queue impact on adjacent             EB queus on STH 60 would back up through the Columbus Commerce Center/Shopko driveway. WB queues               EB queus on STH 60 would back up through the Columbus Commerce Center/Shopko driveway. WB queues
driveways                            on the travel center driveway would back up through the gas and parking area.                                  on the travel center driveway would back up through the gas and parking area.

Capacity to accommodate              N/A - Diverted freeway traffic would likely use paralelel route Branch USH 151/STH 73 thorugh downtown         N/A - Diverted freeway traffic would likely use paralelel route Branch USH 151/STH 73 thorugh downtown
diverted freeway traffic for         Colubmus.                                                                                                      Colubmus.
routes parallel to freeway
Impacts of railroad crossings        N/A                                                                                                            N/A
within 1000 feet
Preliminary Layout of existing
                                                                                    See Appendix F                                                                                                 See Appendix F
and proposed traffic control
Additional considerations            Trucks cannot make a two-stage turn (median is not wide enough to store larger trucks) and therefore are likely to experience greater delays than indicated in the above LOS tables. Trucks may continue to try and make
(Indicate if roundabout is           two-stage turns which results in blocking traffic on northbound or southbound STH 16 while waiting in the too-small median.
expected to be a spiral design)
      Right-of-Way Impacts
Amount of acreage impacted (#        None                                                                                                           None
of relocations, access
restrictions)
Anticipated right-of-way and real    None                                                                                                           None
estate costs (Attach cost estimate
tables)

Additional considerations

              Costs
Discuss estimated costs (Attach      None                                                                                                           $250,000-$300,000 based on the conceptual drawings of the safety improvements for the TWSC alternative.
itemized cost estimate tables)
Operations and Maintenance           No additional costs                                                                                            No additional costs
Costs

Additional considerations

       Practical Feasibility
                                     Does not accommodate expected traffic growth from Columbus Commerce Center/Design Year 2034 Volumes.           Does not accommodate expected traffic growth from Columbus Commerce Center/Design Year 2034
Concerns alternative may present
                                                                                                                                                    Volumes.
Major impacts on businesses,         None                                                                                                           None
parking availability, real estate
and utilities
Frequency of use as an alternate
route

Additional considerations

    Pedestrians and Bicycles
Describe the need for pedestrian     Rural area with little ped and bike use in 2013. With buildout of Columbus Commerce Center, ped and bike       Rural area with little ped and bike use in 2013. With buildout of Columbus Commerce Center, ped and bike
and bicycle facilities               use may increase to and from that development.                                                                 use may increase to and from that development.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2
1401-02-02
              Factor                  Existing Traffic Control TWSC (No Build)                                                                       Alternative 1 TWSC + Safety Improvements (Build)
Identify nearby pedestrian            Proposed Columbus Commerce Center in SW corner of intersection (south of STH 60, west of STH 16). Exhibit      Proposed Columbus Commerce Center in SW corner of intersection (south of STH 60, west of STH 16). Exhibit
generators, bike routes, transit      2.                                                                                                             2.
stops and if the intersection is on
a Safe Route to School (part of
existing conditions exhibit)
State if and what facilities are
proposed, within, the project
limits (part of preliminary layout
of proposed alternatives)
Additional considerations

     OSOW Freight Network
                                      USH 151 about 1,000 feet south of the STH 16/STH 60 intersection. From the south on STH 16/STH 60 to the west on STH 60 is a secondary OSOW route and may occasionally have these vehicles travel through the
Identify nearby OSOW generators
                                      intersection.
If either intersecting road is on     The existing median on STH 16 is not set back far enough to provide for an adequate turning path for larger Based on conceptual drawings, the proposed geometrics can accommodate the wheel path of larger OSOW
the freight network, is a             trucks turning either eastbound into the Columbus West Travel Center or westbound onto STH 60.              vehicles, such as those carrying wind blades. The wind blade may overhang non-roadway areas, however,
significant diversion route or near                                                                                                               and therefore signs, signal and light poles, and other fixed objects will need to be placed outside of these
a freight origin or destination       Some OSOW vehicles may also not have enough pavement room to adequately turn at the intersection.           areas.
discuss the following:

·   The geometric features and
    other design considerations
    to account for the OSOW
    vehicle path (e.g. grading,
    medians, islands).

·   Vertical and horizontal
    clearance to account for the
    OSOW vehicle path (e.g.
    monotubes, signing)
Additional considerations

     Environmental Impacts
Type (i.e. historical,                None noted.                                                                                                    None noted.
archeological, wetlands or
hazardous material) and amount
of environmental acreage
impacts

Additional considerations



               Factor                  Alternative 2 Traffic Signal                                                                                   Alternative 3 Roundabout

               Safety
                                       13 crashes occurred in 5-year period from 2008 through 2012 with 6 PDO, 6 injury, and 1 fatality. Trucks were involved nearly equally to cars. 61.5% of the crashes were angled crashes, and the majority of the crashes at
Crash diagram trends
                                       the intersection occurred from vehicles travelling to and from the Columbus West Travel Center. At least 3 of th crashes were due to lack of sight distance/obstructed views (Appendix A).

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3
1401-02-02
              Factor                  Alternative 2 Traffic Signal                                                                                     Alternative 3 Roundabout
Percent and type of crashes           Positively offset left turn lanes could reduce left-turn crashes by 38% and injury crashes by 36%                Installing roundabout could reduce all crashes by as much 74%. Injury crashes could be reduced by as much
expected to be reduced by             (http://www.fhwa.dot.gov/publications/research/safety/09036/). Installing signal could reduce angle              as 89% (http://www.cmfclearinghouse.org/)
alternative                           crashes by 67% (http://www.cmfclearinghouse.org/)
Access near the intersection and      The east leg of the intersection is a driveway for the Columbus West Travel Center, which includes a BP gas station/truck stop and an Arby's fast-food restaurant. A driveway to the Columbus Commerce Center, which
side road traffic impacts             currently includes a Shopko is located on STH 60 about 700 feet west of STH 16. The southbound ramps/interhcange to USH 151 is located on STH 16 about 1,000 feet south of STH 60.
Additional considerations

       Operational Analysis
                                      Traffic signals warrants 1 and 7 are expected to be met with the construction year 2014 traffic volumes,         N/A
Discuss the Warrant Analysis          which includes phase 1 of the Columbus Commerce Center. Warrant 1, 2, 3, 7, and the left-turn conflict
(Attach AWSC/Signal warrants)         analysis are expected to be met with the design year 2034 traffic volumes, which includes full buildout of the
                                      Columbus Commerce Center. (Appendix D)
LOS, delay, v/c ratio and 95th
percentile queues for each             AM PEAK                 EB                    WB                         NB                     SB               AM PEAK              EB                     WB                       NB                     SB
movement. (include traffic count,                     LT       TH     RT      LT      TH      RT         LT     TH     RT      LT      TH      RT                     LT     TH      RT      LT     TH      RT         LT    TH     RT      LT      TH       RT
forecast and analysis                  LOS             B        B      B       B       B       B          A      A      A       B       B       B       LOS            A              A       A              A          A            A       A                B
inputs/outputs)                        Delay (s)     17.6     15.4   18.1    16.7    16.0    16.0        8.8    4.6    4.2    11.8    14.0    12.1      Delay (s)     6.9            5.8     9.0            8.4        7.4          8.1     9.5             10.5
                                       v/c Ratio     0.20     0.02   0.45    0.17    0.14    0.14       0.64   0.19   0.04    0.05    0.50    0.13      v/c Ratio    0.11           0.01    0.12           0.08       0.38         0.43    0.40             0.45
                                       Queue (ft)     30'      5'     50'     25'     15'     15'       100'    35'     5'     10'     95'     20'      Queue (ft)    10'             0'     10'            15'        45'          55'     50'              60'
                                        Int. LOS                                                    B                                                    Int. LOS                                                 A

                                       PM PEAK                 EB                    WB                         NB                     SB               PM PEAK              EB                     WB                       NB                     SB
                                                      LT       TH     RT      LT      TH      RT         LT     TH     RT      LT      TH      RT                     LT     TH      RT      LT     TH      RT         LT    TH     RT      LT      TH       RT
                                       LOS             C        B     C        B       B       B         B       A      A       B       B       B       LOS            A              A       B              A          B           B        B                B
                                       Delay (s)     20.6     16.5   29.7    18.7    17.0    17.0       14.6    6.2    5.4    16.8    19.6    17.0      Delay (s)     7.6            5.2    11.3            9.7       10.3         11.9    11.0             12.2
                                       v/c Ratio     0.41     0.04   0.83    0.24    0.12    0.12       0.80   0.26   0.05    0.10    0.58    0.18      v/c Ratio    0.23           0.02    0.20           0.10       0.53         0.60    0.44             0.50
                                       Queue (ft)     85'      10'   200'     40'     20'     20'       205'    70'    10'     15'    130'     30'      Queue (ft)    25'             5'     20'            10'        85'         105'     60'              70'
                                        Int. LOS                                                    B                                                    Int. LOS                                                 A

                                      Notes: Traffic Counts (Appendix B1), Forecastes (Appendix B2), Signal Worksheets (Appendix C4)                   Notes: Traffic Counts (Appendix B1), Forecastes (Appendix B2), Roundabout Worksheets (Appendix C5)
Queue impact on adjacent              None                                                                                                             None
driveways
Capacity to accommodate 5-20% of      N/A - Diverted freeway traffic would likely use paralelel route Branch USH 151/STH 73 thorugh downtown           N/A - Diverted freeway traffic would likely use paralelel route Branch USH 151/STH 73 thorugh downtown
diverted freeway traffic for routes   Colubmus.                                                                                                        Colubmus.
parallel to freeway
Document railroad crossings within    N/A                                                                                                              N/A
1000 feet of the intersection.
Preliminary Layout of existing and
                                                                                     See Appendix F                                                                                                 See Appendix F
proposed traffic control
Additional considerations
(Indicate if roundabout is expected
to be a spiral design)
       Right-of-Way Impacts
                                      0.16 acres to accommodate the additional eastbound left-turn and right-turn lane on STH 60. The additional       None
Amount of acreage impacted (# of
                                      ROW is part of the Columbus Commerce Center land which at full buildout results in high turning volumes
relocations, access restrictions)
                                      that are causing the need for the additional lanes on STH 60.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4
1401-02-02
               Factor                   Alternative 2 Traffic Signal                                                                                 Alternative 3 Roundabout
Anticipated right-of-way and real       None if Columbus Commerce Center is required to provide the additional right-of-way due to the increase in   None
estate costs (Attach cost estimate      traffic caused by full buildout of their development.
tables)
Additional Considerations

               Costs
Discuss estimated costs (Attach         $500,000-$550,000 based on the conceptual drawings of the traffic signal alternative.                        $1,800,000-$2,000,000 based on the conceptual drawings of the roundabout alternative.
itemized cost estimate tables)
                                        Not calculated, but costs include retiming & maintaining signal operations and equipment, detection          Not calculated, but include additional lighting maintenance, landscaping and maintenance of central island,
Operations and Maintenance Costs
                                        equipment, etc.                                                                                              etc.
Additional considerations

        Practical Feasibility

Concerns alternative may present
Major impacts on businesses,
parking availability, real estate and
utilities
Frequency of use as an alternate
route
Additional considerations
     Pedestrians and Bicycles
Describe the need for pedestrian        Rural area with little ped and bike use in 2013. With buildout of Columbus Commerce Center, ped and bike     Rural area with little ped and bike use in 2013. With buildout of Columbus Commerce Center, ped and bike
and bicycle facilities                  use may increase to and from that development.                                                               use may increase to and from that development.
Identify nearby pedestrian              Proposed Columbus Commerce Center in SW corner of intersection (south of STH 60, west of STH 16).            Proposed Columbus Commerce Center in SW corner of intersection (south of STH 60, west of STH 16). Exhibit
generators, bike routes, transit        Exhibit 2.                                                                                                   2.
stops and if the intersection is on a
Safe Route to School (part of
existing conditions exhibit)
State if and what facilities are
proposed, within, the project limits
(part of preliminary layout of
proposed alternatives)
Additional considerations
       OSOW Vehicle Routes
                                        USH 151 about 1,000 feet south of the STH 16/STH 60 intersection. From the south on STH 16/STH 60 to the west on STH 60 is a secondary OSOW route and may occasionally have these vehicles travel through the
 Identify nearby OSOW generators
                                        intersection.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5
1401-02-02
               Factor                   Alternative 2 Traffic Signal                                                                                   Alternative 3 Roundabout
If either intersecting road is on the   Based on conceptual drawings, the proposed geometrics can accommodate the wheel path of larger OSOW            A two-lane roundabout can accommodate the wheel path of a WB-65 vehicle, but the wheel path of trucks
freight network, is a significant       vehicles, such as those carrying wind blades. The wind blade may overhang non-roadway areas, however,          will travel over a traversable apron in the central island.
diversion route or near a freight       and therefore signs, signal and light poles, and other fixed objects will need to be placed outside of these
origin or destination discuss the       areas.                                                                                                         Based on the conceptual design, a two-lane roundabout can also accommodate larger OSOW vehicles, such
following:                                                                                                                                             as those carrying wind blades. The wind blade may overhang the medians and non-roadway areas, so all
                                        Traffic signal equipment, particularly signal heads on monotube signal poles will need to account for the      fixed object signing and light poles will need to be placed outside of these areas.
·   The geometric features and          height of expected OSOW vehicles passing through the intersection, particularly on the northbound STH 16
    other design considerations to      approach.
    account for the OSOW vehicle
    path (e.g. grading, medians,
    islands).

·   Vertical and horizontal
    clearance to account for the
    OSOW vehicle path (e.g.
    monotubes, signing)

Additional considerations

      Environmental Impacts
Type (i.e. historical, archeological,   None noted.                                                                                                    None noted.
wetlands or hazardous material)
and amount of environmental
acreage impacts

Additional considerations

                                                                                                                      Recommendation
Neither the TWSC-No Build nor the TWSC-Build alternatives are expected to accommodate design year 2034 traffic volumes. Both traffic signal and roundabout control are expected to provide LOS C or better for all traffic movements in the design year, and
result in improved safety and sight distance for cars and trucks at the intersection. Roundabout control provides acceptable traffic operations and safety through the design year, but has high anticipated construction costs and the design may be more difficult
for trucks and OSOW vehicles to navigate through the intersection. Traffic signal control meets warrants, provides acceptable traffic operations and safety through the design year, and has mid-level anticipated construction costs. With proper placement of
fixed signs, signal poles, and lights, the proposed design can accommodate OSOW vehicles turning through the intersection. Both traffic signal control and roundbout control are recommended to be considered for further study at the STH 16/STH 60
intersection.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6
1401-02-02
                              APPENDIX F


        TRAFFIC CONTROL ALTERNATIVE
              LAYOUT DRAWINGS




Traffic Analysis & Design, Inc.            APPENDIX
                                     EXISTING TWSC (BUILD)
                  ITEM                       UNIT     QUANTITY       UNIT PRICE         COST
         EXCAVATION COMMON                    CY        2,920            $8            $23,360
   CONCRETE CURB AND GUTTER 30"                LF       2,700           $15            $40,500
  BASE AGGREGATE DENSE 1 1/4" (12")          TON        3,850           $12            $46,200
    SELECT CRUSHED MATERIAL (12")            TON        3,850           $11            $42,350
        CONCRETE PAVEMENT(9")                  SY         80            $40            $3,200
          HMA PAVEMENT (6")                  TON         950            $85            $80,750
   PAVEMENT MARKINGS (INCLUSIVE)               LS          1          $10,000          $10,000
           TRAFFIC CONTROL                     LS          1          $20,000          $20,000
                      TOTAL CONSTRUCTION (2013 DOLLARS)                               $266,360
                                TOTAL R/W IMPACT = 0.00 ACRES
Note: Estimate only includes connecting to existing asphalt pavement where required, and
       does not replace existing deteriorated pavement


                                  TRAFFIC SIGNAL ALTERNATIVE
                  ITEM                                QUANTITY       UNIT PRICE         COST
         EXCAVATION COMMON                    CY        3,860            $8            $30,880
   CONCRETE CURB AND GUTTER 30"                LF       3,200            $15           $48,000
  BASE AGGREGATE DENSE 1 1/4" (12")          TON        5,050            $12           $60,600
    SELECT CRUSHED MATERIAL (12")            TON        5,050            $11           $55,550
        CONCRETE PAVEMENT(9")                  SY         80             $40           $3,200
          HMA PAVEMENT (6")                    SF       1,420            $85          $120,700
   PAVEMENT MARKINGS (INCLUSIVE)               LS          1           $10,000         $10,000
           TRAFFIC CONTROL                     LS          1           $20,000         $20,000
     TRAFFIC SIGNAL INSTALLATION               LS          1          $150,000        $150,000
                      TOTAL CONSTRUCTION (2013 DOLLARS)                               $498,930
                                TOTAL R/W IMPACT = 0.15 ACRES
Note: Estimate only includes connecting to existing asphalt pavement where required, and
       does not replace existing deteriorated pavement


                                 ROUNDABOUT ALTERNATIVE
                  ITEM                           QUANTITY           UNIT PRICE        COST
 DUAL LANE ROUNDABOUT, COMPLETE             LS        1             $1,800,000     $1,800,000
                     TOTAL CONSTRUCTION (2013 DOLLARS)                             $1,800,000
                               TOTAL R/W IMPACT = 0.00 ACRES
Note: Estimate for conceptual purposes only

* Estimates provided above are for conceptual use only, and are not based on detailed designs
STH
      16




                    STH 16/60




           STH 60




                                         50   100

                           SCALE, FEET
              50   100

SCALE, FEET




              50   100

SCALE, FEET
STH
      16




                    STH 16/60




           STH 60




                                        50   100

                          SCALE, FEET
                     50     100

  SCALE, FEET




                50        100

SCALE, FEET
STH
      16




                    STH 16/60




           STH 60




                                              50   100

                                SCALE, FEET
                 STH 16/60                           STH 16/60




                                                        50       100

                                       SCALE, FEET




                                                        STH 16/60



         STH 16/60




                                                       50    100




                             STH 60
STH 60




                                      SCALE, FEET
