                                    EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

This report summarizes the findings of the Traffic Impact Analysis (TIA) that was prepared for the
ABB Manufacturing Facility, which is to be located on the east side of Meacham Farm Drive in
Huntersville, North Carolina. It is understood that the subject site will consist of a 248,276 square
foot manufacturing facility upon full build out in the year 2012. Access to the development is
proposed via a connection to existing Meacham Farm Drive.

The following table summarizes the trip generation for the proposed development.

                                         Daily         AM Peak Hour           PM Peak Hour
          Manufacturing Facility
                                         Traffic          (vph)                  (vph)
          (248,276 Square Feet)
                                         (vpd)         Enter       Exit      Enter       Exit
               Vehicle Trips               394          86          26        26          61
               Truck Trips                 30           3           0         1           2
               Total Trips                 424          89          26        27          63

It is estimated that the manufacturing facility will generate a total of 424 trips (in and out) during a
typical weekday. Of these average weekday trips, it is estimated that the development will
generate 115 trips (89 entering and 26 exiting) during the AM peak hour and 90 trips (27 entering
and 63 exiting) during the PM peak hour.

The purpose of this study is to determine the potential impacts to the surrounding transportation
system caused by the additional traffic generated by the proposed manufacturing facility. In order
to accomplish this objective, this study analyzed existing (2011) traffic conditions and future
(2012) traffic conditions under `no-build' and `build' scenarios during the weekday AM and PM
peak hours.

Existing Traffic Conditions
Under existing conditions, the northbound left turn movement from Old Statesville Road and the
southbound left turn movement from Statesville Road [onto Verhoeff Drive] experience minor
delays and operate at LOS A during the AM and PM peak hours. The eastbound stop-controlled
approach of Verhoeff Drive [at Old Statesville Road] experiences moderate overall delays and
operates at LOS D or better, while the westbound approach of Verhoeff Drive [at Statesville Road]
experiences greater delays and operates at LOS E and D during the AM and PM peak hours,
respectively. The southbound left turn movement from Old Statesville Road [onto Meacham
Farm Drive] experiences minor delays and operates at LOS A during the peak hours. The
westbound stop-controlled approach of Meacham Farm Drive [at Old Statesville Road]
experiences moderate overall delays and operates at LOS D or better. All intersections are
currently under capacity during the AM and PM peak hours that corresponds to the intersection's
capacity under signalized conditions.

Future `No-Build' Traffic Conditions
A major construction project is proposed within the study area, and is expected to be completed by
2012. A new bridge will be constructed over Old Statesville Road in the immediate vicinity of the
existing intersection of Old Statesville Road and Meacham Farm Drive, which will be eliminated.
New Verhoeff Drive will be extended over Old Statesville Road and loop around to form a new
three-legged unsignalized intersection with South Church Street. The existing intersection of Old
Statesville Road and Verhoeff Drive will remain, but Old Verhoeff Drive will be realigned to
intersect New Verhoeff Drive to form a new four-legged unsignalized intersection opposite the
realigned access to CPCC.

Under background traffic conditions with the Verhoeff Drive project completed, the northbound
left turn movement from Old Statesville Road and the southbound left turn movement from
Statesville Road [onto Verhoeff Drive] are expected to experience minor delays and operate at
LOS A during the AM and PM peak hours. The eastbound stop-controlled approach of Old
Verhoeff Drive [at Old Statesville Road] is expected to experience moderate overall delays and
operate at LOS D or better, while the westbound approach of Verhoeff Drive [at Statesville Road]
is expected to experience greater delays and operate at LOS E and D during the AM and PM peak
hours, respectively. The poorer levels of operation on the stop-controlled approach is primarily a
result of the delays experienced by the left turn movement, which is not uncommon at
unsignalized intersections.

As for the two (2) new unsignalized intersections that will be created as part of the Verhoeff Drive
project, the eastbound and westbound left turn movements from New Verhoeff Drive [onto Old
Verhoeff Drive and into CPCC] are expected to experience minor delays and operate at LOS A
during the peak hours. The northbound and southbound stop-controlled approaches of CPCC and
New Verhoeff Drive are expected to experience minor to moderate overall delays and operate at
LOS B or better. The southbound left turn movement from South Church Street [onto New
Verhoeff Drive] is expected to experience minor delays and operate at LOS A during the peak
hours. The westbound stop-controlled approach of New Verhoeff Drive is expected to experience
minor overall delays and operate at LOS A.

All intersections are expected to have additional capacity during the peak hours.

Future `Build' Traffic Conditions
Under combined traffic conditions, the northbound left turn movement from Old Statesville Road
and the southbound left turn movement from Statesville Road [onto Verhoeff Drive] are expected
to experience minor to moderate delays and operate at LOS B or better during the AM and PM
peak hours. The eastbound stop-controlled approach of Old Verhoeff Drive [at Old Statesville
Road] is expected to experience greater overall delays and operate at LOS D and E during the AM
and PM peak hours, respectively. The westbound approach of Verhoeff Drive [at Statesville
Road] is expected to experience greater delays and operate at LOS F and D during the AM and PM
peak hours, respectively. The poorer levels of operation on the stop-controlled approaches is
primarily a result of the delays experienced by the left turn movement, which is not uncommon at
unsignalized intersections.

As for the new unsignalized intersections, the eastbound and westbound left turn movements from
New Verhoeff Drive [onto Old Verhoeff Drive and into CPCC] are expected to experience minor
delays and operate at LOS A during the peak hours. The northbound and southbound stop-
controlled approaches of CPCC and New Verhoeff Drive are expected to experience minor to
moderate overall delays and operate at LOS C or better. The southbound left turn movement from
South Church Street [onto New Verhoeff Drive] is expected to experience minor delays and
operate at LOS A during the peak hours. The westbound stop-controlled approach of New
Verhoeff Drive is expected to experience minor overall delays and operate at LOS A.

All intersections are expected to have additional capacity during the peak hours.

In addition to the Synchro analysis, a traffic simulation model was developed utilizing SimTraffic
to evaluate the queuing conditions at the study intersections. Based on the maximum queues, the
existing and proposed storage lengths for the auxiliary turn lanes should accommodate the
projected turning movements.

In conclusion, the traffic generated by the ABB Manufacturing Facility is not expected to have a
significant impact to the surrounding transportation. With the improvements provided under the
Verhoeff Drive project, the intersections and auxiliary turn lanes are expected to accommodate the
additional traffic. While the stop-controlled approaches of Verhoeff Drive [at Statesville Road
and New Verhoeff Drive] could be expected to experience poorer overall levels of operation due
to the left turn movement delays, no improvements are recommended since exclusive left and right
turn lanes are [or will be] provided on the approaches at both unsignalized intersections.
Furthermore, the greater delays anticipated for the stop-controlled approaches are not an
uncommon occurrence at unsignalized intersections located on major thoroughfares and are
nearing levels of operation of E or F under background traffic conditions.
                                    TABLE OF CONTENTS


1. INTRODUCTION                                         1
1.1. Site Location and Study Area                       1
1.2. Proposed Land Use and Site Access                  3
1.3. Existing and Proposed Land Uses                    3
1.4. Existing Roadways                                  3


2. TRAFFIC ANALYSIS PROCEDURE                           6


3. EXISTING (2011) TRAFFIC CONDITIONS                   7
3.1. Analysis of Existing (2011) Peak Hour Traffic      9


4. FUTURE 'NO-BUILD' TRAFFIC CONDITIONS                 10
4.1. Background (2012) Peak Hour Traffic Volumes        10
4.2. Future Roadway Improvements                        10
4.3. Analysis of Background Peak Hour Traffic           13


5. FUTURE 'BUILD' TRAFFIC CONDITIONS                    17
5.1. Trip Generation                                    17
5.2. Site Trip Distribution and Assignment              17
5.3. Analysis of Combined Peak Hour Traffic             18


6. CONCLUSIONS                                          24




                                                i
                                    LIST OF TABLES
Table 1    HCM Levels of Service and Delay                                 6
Table 1A Synchro Intersection Capacity Utilization and Levels of Service   7
Table 2    Analysis of Existing (2011) Traffic Conditions                  9
Table 3    Analysis of Background (2012) Traffic Conditions                13
Table 4    Trip Generation                                                 17
Table 5    Analysis of Combined (2012) Traffic Conditions                  18


                                    LIST OF FIGURES
Figure 1   Site Location Map                                               2
Figure 2   Site Plan                                                       4
Figure 3   Existing Lane Configurations                                    5
Figure 4   Existing (2011) Traffic Conditions                              8
Figure 5   Background (2012) Traffic Conditions                            11
Figure 6   Future Lane Configurations (Verhoeff Drive Project)             12
Figure 7   Traffic Adjustments (Verhoeff Drive Project)                    14
Figure 8   Background (2012) Traffic Conditions with Traffic Adjustments   15
Figure 9   Site Trip Distribution                                          19
Figure 10 Site Trip Assignment                                             20
Figure 11 Combined (2012) Traffic Conditions                               21
Figure 12 Queue Lengths                                                    23




                                            ii
                            TECHNICAL APPENDIX
Appendix A   Scoping Package
Appendix B   Traffic Count Data
Appendix C   Capacity Analysis Reports ­ Existing (2011) Traffic Conditions
Appendix D   Verhoeff Drive Roadway Plans
Appendix E   Capacity Analysis Reports ­ Background (2012) Traffic Conditions
Appendix F   ABB Traffic Projections
Appendix G   Capacity Analysis & Queuing Reports ­ Combined (2012) Traffic Conditions




                                         iii
                           TRAFFIC IMPACT ANALYSIS
                         ABB MANUFACTURING FACILITY
                        HUNTERSVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA


1.      INTRODUCTION
This report summarizes the findings of the Traffic Impact Analysis (TIA) that was prepared for the
ABB Manufacturing Facility, which is to be located on the east side of Meacham Farm Drive in
Huntersville, North Carolina. It is understood that the subject site will consist of a 248,276 square
foot manufacturing facility upon full build out. The purpose of this study is to determine the
potential impacts to the surrounding transportation system caused by the additional traffic
generated by the proposed manufacturing facility. In order to accomplish this objective, this study
analyzed existing (2011) traffic conditions and future (2012) traffic conditions under `no-build'
and `build' scenarios during the weekday AM and PM peak hours.


1.1. Site Location and Study Area
The site is located on the east side of existing Meacham Farm Drive in Huntersville, North
Carolina. Refer to Figure 1 for the site location map. The study area was developed through
coordination with the Town of Huntersville and the North Carolina Department of Transportation
(NCDOT) and consists of the following intersections:

     1. Statesville Road (US 21) and Verhoeff Drive - Unsignalized
     2. Old Statesville Road (NC 115) and Verhoeff Drive - Unsignalized
     3. Old Statesville Road (NC 115) and Meacham Farm Drive - Unsignalized to be Eliminated
     4. New Verhoeff Drive and Old Verhoeff Drive ­ Future Unsignalized
     5. South Church Street and New Verhoeff Drive ­ Future Unsignalized

Refer to Appendix A for a copy of the Scoping Package that was approved by the Town of
Huntersville and NCDOT.
1.2. Proposed Land Use and Site Access
The site will consist of a 248,276 square foot manufacturing facility. It is understood that the
development will be fully built out by the year 2012. Access to the development is proposed via a
connection to existing Meacham Farm Drive. Refer to Figure 2 for an illustration of the site plan.


1.3. Existing and Proposed Land Uses
Land use within the immediate vicinity of the site consists of residential, industrial, and
educational uses. Central Piedmont Community College is located on the south side of Verhoeff
Drive, while Lake Norman Charter School is located on the west side of Old Statesville Road. It
was determined through coordination with the Town of Huntersville that there were no adjacent
developments that needed to be incorporated into the future year analysis.


1.4. Existing Roadways
The project study area for this TIA consists of the following facilities: Statesville Road (US 21),
Old Statesville Road (NC 115), and Verhoeff Drive NC 73. Statesville Road (US 21) and Old
Statesville Road (NC 115) are both major north-south thoroughfares while Verhoeff Drive is a
minor east-west thoroughfare. Statesville Road is a two-lane facility with a posted speed limit of
50 miles per hour (mph). Exclusive left and right turn lanes exist on Statesville Road at the
intersection with Verhoeff Drive. Old Statesville Road is a two-lane facility with a posted speed
limit of 35 mph north of the intersection with Verhoeff Drive, and 45 mph south of Verhoeff
Drive. Verhoeff Drive is a two-lane facility with a posted speed limit of 35 mph. Exclusive left
and right turn lanes exist on Verhoeff Drive at the intersection with Statesville Road. According
to 2008 NCDOT Annual Average Daily Traffic (AADT) data, which is the most recent available,
Statesville Road carries 11,000 vehicles per day (vpd) [south of Verhoeff Drive], Old Statesville
Road carries 9,800 vpd [south of Verhoeff Drive], and Verhoeff Drive carries 5,000 vpd.


Existing lane configurations (number of traffic lanes on the intersection approach), lane widths,
storage capacities, and other intersection and roadway information was collected through field
reconnaissance by Ramey Kemp & Associates, Inc. (RKA). Refer to Figure 3 for an illustration
of the existing lane configurations and traffic control conditions.

                                                  3
2.     TRAFFIC ANALYSIS PROCEDURE
All intersection capacity analyses were completed using Synchro 7. Synchro is a comprehensive
software package that allows the user to model and analyze unsignalized intersections utilizing the
methodologies outlined in the 2000 Highway Capacity Manual. Analysis results for unsignalized
intersections do not provide an overall level of service, but rather a level of service for movements
and/or approaches that have a conflicting movement.


The HCM defines capacity as "the maximum hourly rate at which persons or vehicles can
reasonably be expected to traverse a point or uniform section of a lane or roadway during a given
time period under prevailing roadway, traffic, and control conditions". Level of service (LOS) is a
term used to represent different driving conditions, and is defined as a "qualitative measure
describing operational conditions within a traffic stream, and their perception by motorists and/or
passengers". Level of service varies from Level "A" representing free flow, to Level "F" where
greater vehicle delays are evident. Refer to Table 1 for HCM levels of service and related average
control delay per vehicle for unsignalized intersections. Control delay as defined by the HCM
includes "initial deceleration delay, queue move-up time, stopped delay, and final acceleration
delay". As shown in Table 1, levels of service are stated in terms of average control delay. An
average control delay of 30 seconds at an unsignalized intersection results in level of service D
operation.

                                  TABLE 1
             HIGHWAY CAPACITY MANUAL LEVELS OF SERVICE AND DELAY

                                 UNSIGNALIZED INTERSECTION

                                                      Average Control
                              Level Of Service        Delay Per Vehicle
                                                          (Seconds)

                                     A                      0-10
                                     B                     10-15
                                     C                     15-25
                                     D                     25-35
                                     E                     35-50
                                     F                      >50




                                                 6
The Intersection Capacity Utilization (ICU) measures the amount of capacity that is available at a
signalized intersection.    As for unsignalized intersections, the ICU represents the potential
capacity if the intersection were signalized. Level of service varies from Level "A" representing
uncongested conditions and additional capacity, to Level "H" where the intersection is over
capacity and congested conditions are evident. Refer to Table 1A for ICU levels of service and
related intersection capacity utilization.      As shown in Table 1A, an intersection capacity
utilization of 75% results in level of service (LOS) D at the intersection. The baseline for this
Zoning District is LOS D.

                               TABLE 1A
     SYNCHRO INTERSECTION CAPACITY UTILIZATION AND LEVELS OF SERVICE


                       Intersection Capacity Utilization   Level Of Service


                                  0 to 55%                        A
                                >55% to 64%                       B
                                >64% to 73%                       C
                                >73% to 82%                       D
                                >82% to 91%                       E
                               >91% to 100%                       F
                               >100% to 109%                      G
                                   >109%                          H




3.      EXISTING (2011) TRAFFIC CONDITIONS
Existing weekday AM and PM peak hour traffic volumes for the study intersections were obtained
from turning movement counts conducted by RKA on February 24, 2011 during the AM (7:00 to
9:00) and PM (4:30 to 6:30) peak periods. Refer to Figure 4 for an illustration of the existing peak
hour traffic volumes. Please note that the traffic volumes were balanced upwards between the
intersections of Verhoeff Drive and Meacham Farm Drive on Old Statesville Road. In addition,
the traffic volumes were balanced on Verhoeff Drive [between the Central Piedmont Community
College Access and Old Statesville Road] and Meacham Farm Drive [between Old Statesville
Road and South Church Street]. A copy of the raw traffic count data can be found in Appendix B
of this report.


                                                    7
3.1. Analysis of Existing (2011) Peak Hour Traffic
In order to estimate the current operating levels of service (LOS) at the study intersections, the
existing (2011) traffic volumes were analyzed under existing lane configurations and traffic
control conditions. The capacity analysis results are presented in Table 2. Refer to Appendix C
for more detailed capacity analysis results.

                                           TABLE 2
                        ANALYSIS OF EXISTING (2011) TRAFFIC CONDITIONS


                                         A
                                         P
                                         P                             AM PEAK HOUR     PM PEAK HOUR
                                         R           LANE               LEVELS OF         LEVELS OF
         INTERSECTION                                                    SERVICE           SERVICE
                                         O      CONFIGURATIONS
                                         A
                                         C
                                         H
                                                                       HCM     ICU      HCM      ICU
                                        NB              1 LT-TH         A1               A1
Old Statesville Road (NC 115)
                                        SB              1 TH-RT                 D                D
     and Verhoeff Drive                                                  2                2
                                        EB              1 LT-RT         C     (79.5)     D     (75.8)
                                        NB             1 TH, 1 RT
Statesville Road (US 21) and
                                        SB             1 LT, 1 TH       A1      A        A1      A
       Verhoeff Drive
                                        WB             1 LT, 1 RT       E2    (45.9)     D2    (49.6)
                                        NB              1 TH-RT
Old Statesville Road (NC 115)
                                        SB              1 LT-TH         A1      B        A1      A
  and Meacham Farm Drive
                                        WB              1 LT-RT         D2    (58.0)     C2    (50.5)
    1.    Level of service for left turn movement on major approach.
    2.    Level of service for approach.


Capacity analysis indicates that the northbound left turn movement from Old Statesville Road and
the southbound left turn movement from Statesville Road [onto Verhoeff Drive] experience minor
delays of less than 10 seconds per vehicle and operate at LOS A during the AM and PM peak
hours. The eastbound stop-controlled approach of Verhoeff Drive [at Old Statesville Road]
experiences moderate overall delays of 32 seconds per vehicle or less and operates at LOS D or
better, while the westbound approach of Verhoeff Drive [at Statesville Road] experiences greater
delays of 39 seconds per vehicle or less and operates at LOS E and D during the AM and PM peak
hours, respectively. Both intersections are currently under capacity based on the ICU LOS D or
better, which corresponds to the intersection's capacity under signalized conditions.

                                                               9
Analysis indicates that the southbound left turn movement from Old Statesville Road [onto
Meacham Farm Drive] experiences minor delays of less than a second per vehicle and operates at
LOS A during the AM and PM peak hours. The westbound stop-controlled approach of Meacham
Farm Drive [at Old Statesville Road] experiences moderate overall delays of approximately 30
seconds per vehicle or less and operates at LOS D or better. This intersection is currently under
capacity based on the ICU LOS B or better, which corresponds to the intersection's capacity under
signalized conditions.


4.     FUTURE `NO-BUILD' TRAFFIC CONDITIONS
In order to account for the growth of traffic and subsequent traffic conditions at a future year,
background traffic projections are needed. Background traffic is that component of traffic due to
growth of the community and surrounding area that is anticipated to occur regardless of whether
the proposed site is developed.


4.1.   Background (2012) Peak Hour Traffic Volumes
To account for the growth of `background' traffic that is anticipated regardless of site
development, the existing traffic volumes within the study area were projected to the year 2012 by
applying an annual growth rate of 2%. Refer to Figure 5 for an illustration of the background
peak hour traffic volumes.


4.2.   Future Roadway Improvements
A major construction project is proposed within the study area, and is expected to be completed by
2012. A new bridge will be constructed over Old Statesville Road in the immediate vicinity of the
existing intersection of Old Statesville Road and Meacham Farm Drive, which will be eliminated.
New Verhoeff Drive will be extended over Old Statesville Road and loop around to form a new
three-legged unsignalized intersection with South Church Street. The existing intersection of Old
Statesville Road and Verhoeff Drive will remain, but Old Verhoeff Drive will be realigned to
intersect New Verhoeff Drive to form a new four-legged unsignalized intersection opposite the
realigned access to CPCC. Refer to Figure 6 for an illustration of the future lane configurations.
A copy of the roadway plans can be found in Appendix D.

                                               10
The Verhoeff Drive project will have a significant effect on the existing travel patterns. In order
to analyze the future `no-build' traffic conditions, adjustments had to be made to the existing
traffic patterns. Refer to Figures 7 and 8 for an illustration of the traffic adjustments associated
the Verhoeff Drive project and the adjusted background peak hour traffic volumes, respectively.


4.3.    Analysis of Background Peak Hour Traffic
The study intersections were analyzed under future lane configurations (Figure 6) and traffic
control conditions. A summary of the capacity analysis results are presented in Table 3. Refer to
Appendix E for more detailed capacity analysis results.

                                     TABLE 3
                  ANALYSIS OF BACKGROUND (2012) TRAFFIC CONDITIONS


                                       A
                                       P
                                       P                            AM PEAK HOUR      PM PEAK HOUR
                                       R           LANE              LEVELS OF          LEVELS OF
       INTERSECTION                                                   SERVICE            SERVICE
                                       O      CONFIGURATIONS
                                       A
                                       C
                                       H
                                                                    HCM     ICU        HCM         ICU
                                     NB             1 LT, 1 TH       A1                 A1
Old Statesville Road (NC 115)
                                     SB             1 TH, 1 RT               A                     A
     and Verhoeff Drive                                               2                   2
                                     EB             1 LT, 1 RT       C     (52.0)       D         (47.1)
                                     NB             1 TH, 1 RT
Statesville Road (US 21) and
                                     SB             1 LT, 1 TH       A1      A          A1         A
       Verhoeff Drive
                                     WB             1 LT, 1 RT       E2    (46.7)       D2        (50.3)
                                     EB           1 LT, 1 TH-RT      A1                 A1
  New Verhoeff Drive and             WB           1 LT, 1 TH-RT      A1      A          A1         A
 Old Verhoeff Drive/CPCC             NB           1 LT, 1 TH-RT      B2                 B2
                                     SB           1 LT, 1 TH-RT      B2
                                                                           (33.6)       A2
                                                                                                  (29.2)
                                     NB              1 TH-RT
  New Verhoeff Drive and
                                     SB              1 LT-TH         A1      A          A1         A
   South Church Street
                                     WB              1 LT-RT         A2    (17.2)       A2        (14.2)
    Underline denotes Verhoeff Drive Project Improvements
    1. Level of service for left turn movement on major approach.
    2. Level of service for approach.




                                                           13
Capacity analysis indicates that the northbound left turn movement from Old Statesville Road and
the southbound left turn movement from Statesville Road [onto Verhoeff Drive] are expected to
experience minor delays of 10 seconds per vehicle or less and operate at LOS A during the AM
and PM peak hours. The eastbound stop-controlled approach of Old Verhoeff Drive [at Old
Statesville Road] is expected to experience moderate overall delays of 29 seconds per vehicle or
less and operate at LOS D or better, while the westbound approach of Verhoeff Drive [at
Statesville Road] is expected to experience greater delays of 43 seconds per vehicle or less and
operate at LOS E and D during the AM and PM peak hours, respectively. The poorer levels of
operation on the stop-controlled approach is primarily a result of the delays experienced by the left
turn movement, which is not uncommon at unsignalized intersections. Both intersections are
expected to be under capacity based on the ICU LOS A.


As previously discussed in Section 4.2 (Future Roadway Improvements), two (2) new
unsignalized intersections will be created as part of the Verhoeff Drive project: 1) New Verhoeff
Drive and Old Verhoeff Drive/CPCC and 2) South Church Street and New Verhoeff Drive.
Capacity analysis indicates that the eastbound and westbound left turn movements from New
Verhoeff Drive [onto Old Verhoeff Drive and into CPCC] are expected to experience minor
delays of 8 seconds per vehicle or less and operate at LOS A during the AM and PM peak hours.
The northbound and southbound stop-controlled approaches of CPCC and New Verhoeff Drive
are expected to experience minor to moderate overall delays of 15 seconds per vehicle or less and
operate at LOS B or better. As for the intersection of South Church Street and New Verhoeff
Drive, analysis indicates that the southbound left turn movement from South Church Street [onto
New Verhoeff Drive] is expected to experience minor delays of 8 seconds per vehicle or less and
operate at LOS A during the AM and PM peak hours. The westbound stop-controlled approach of
New Verhoeff Drive is expected to experience minor overall delays of approximately 9 seconds
per vehicle or less and operate at LOS A. Based on the ICU LOS A, both intersections are
expected to be under capacity.




                                                 16
5.      FUTURE `BUILD' TRAFFIC CONDITIONS
In order to estimate future traffic conditions with the proposed manufacturing facility constructed,
traffic was generated and combined with the projected `background' traffic volumes.


5.1.    Trip Generation
Average weekday daily and AM and PM peak hour trips were calculated based on hourly
employee and truck traffic projections (refer to Appendix F for a copy of the spreadsheet data).
The data was provided by ABB, Inc. and approved by the Town of Huntersville. Refer to Table 4
for a detailed breakdown of the trip generation results.

                                             TABLE 4
                                        TRIP GENERATION

                                         Daily          AM Peak Hour          PM Peak Hour
          Manufacturing Facility
                                         Traffic           (vph)                 (vph)
          (248,276 Square Feet)
                                         (vpd)          Enter      Exit      Enter       Exit
               Vehicle Trips               394           86         26        26          61
                Truck Trips                 30            3          0         1           2
               Total Trips                 424           89         26        27          63


It is estimated that the manufacturing facility will generate a total of 424 trips (in and out) during a
typical weekday. Of these average weekday trips, it is estimated that the development will
generate 115 trips (89 entering and 26 exiting) during the AM peak hour [of which 3 trucks would
enter the facility] and 90 trips (27 entering and 63 exiting) during the PM peak hour [of which 1
truck would enter and 2 trucks would exit the facility].


5.2.    Site Trip Distribution and Assignment
For this study, trip distribution percentages were developed through coordination with the Town
of Huntersville and NCDOT. It is estimated that traffic will access the manufacturing facility
using the following distribution percentages:

        35% to/from the north via Statesville Road (US 21)
        25% to/from the north via Old Statesville Road (NC 115)
        40% to/from the south via Old Statesville Road (NC 115)

                                                   17
Refer to Figure 9 for an illustration of the site trip distribution. The site trip assignment is
illustrated in Figure 10.


5.5.    Analysis of Combined Peak Hour Traffic
As previously indicated, the site-generated traffic was added to the `background' traffic volumes
to determine combined traffic conditions. Refer to Figure 11 for an illustration of combined peak
hour traffic volumes. The study intersections were analyzed with the combined traffic volumes
using the same methodology previously discussed for the background traffic conditions.         A
summary of the capacity analysis results is presented in Table 5. Refer to Appendix G for more
detailed capacity analysis results.

                                       TABLE 5
                     ANALYSIS OF COMBINED (2012) TRAFFIC CONDITIONS


                                       A
                                       P
                                       P                            AM PEAK HOUR    PM PEAK HOUR
                                       R           LANE              LEVELS OF        LEVELS OF
       INTERSECTION                                                   SERVICE          SERVICE
                                       O      CONFIGURATIONS
                                       A
                                       C
                                       H
                                                                    HCM     ICU     HCM         ICU
                                     NB             1 LT, 1 TH       B1              A1
Old Statesville Road (NC 115)
                                     SB             1 TH, 1 RT               A                  A
     and Verhoeff Drive                                               2                  2
                                     EB             1 LT, 1 RT       D     (53.1)    E        (48.0)
                                     NB             1 TH, 1 RT
Statesville Road (US 21) and
                                     SB             1 LT, 1 TH       A1      A       B1         A
       Verhoeff Drive
                                     WB             1 LT, 1 RT       F2    (46.7)    D2       (50.8)
                                     EB           1 LT, 1 TH-RT      A1              A1
  New Verhoeff Drive and             WB           1 LT, 1 TH-RT      A1      A       A1         A
 Old Verhoeff Drive/CPCC             NB           1 LT, 1 TH-RT      C2              B2
                                     SB           1 LT, 1 TH-RT      B2
                                                                           (34.1)    B2
                                                                                              (29.6)
                                     NB              1 TH-RT
  New Verhoeff Drive and
                                     SB              1 LT-TH         A1      A       A1         A
   South Church Street
                                     WB              1 LT-RT         A2    (19.6)    A2       (15.1)
    Underline denotes Verhoeff Drive Project Improvements
    1. Level of service for left turn movement on major approach.
    2. Level of service for approach.




                                                           18
Capacity analysis indicates that the northbound left turn movement from Old Statesville Road and
the southbound left turn movement from Statesville Road [onto Verhoeff Drive] are expected to
experience minor to moderate delays of 11 seconds per vehicle or less and operate at LOS B or
better during the AM and PM peak hours. The eastbound stop-controlled approach of Old
Verhoeff Drive [at Old Statesville Road] is expected to experiences greater overall delays of 36
seconds per vehicle or less and operate at LOS D and E during the AM and PM peak hours,
respectively. The westbound approach of Verhoeff Drive [at Statesville Road] is expected to
experience greater delays of 52 seconds per vehicle or less and operate at LOS F and D during the
AM and PM peak hours, respectively. The poorer levels of operation on the stop-controlled
approaches is primarily a result of the delays experienced by the left turn movement, which is not
uncommon at unsignalized intersections. Both intersections are expected to be under capacity
based on the ICU LOS A.


As for the new unsignalized intersections, analysis indicates that the eastbound and westbound left
turn movements from New Verhoeff Drive [onto Old Verhoeff Drive and into CPCC] are expected
to experience minor delays of 8 seconds per vehicle or less and operate at LOS A during the AM
and PM peak hours. The northbound and southbound stop-controlled approaches of CPCC and
New Verhoeff Drive are expected to experience minor to moderate overall delays of 16 seconds
per vehicle or less and operate at LOS C or better. Capacity analysis indicates that the southbound
left turn movement from South Church Street [onto New Verhoeff Drive] is expected to
experience minor delays of 8 seconds per vehicle or less and operate at LOS A during the AM and
PM peak hours. The westbound stop-controlled approach of New Verhoeff Drive is expected to
experience minor overall delays of 10 seconds per vehicle or less and operate at LOS A. Based on
the ICU LOS A, both intersections are expected to be under capacity.


In addition to the Synchro analysis, a traffic simulation model was developed utilizing SimTraffic
to evaluate the queuing conditions at the study intersections. All queuing results were based on an
average of ten (10) simulation runs. Refer to Appendix G for more detailed SimTraffic queuing
results. In addition, the storage lengths were evaluated using the NCDOT Warrants for Left and
Right Turn Lanes in the "Policy On Street And Driveway Access to North Carolina Highways ­
July 2003 Edition". The existing and proposed storage lengths for the auxiliary turn lanes should
accommodate the projected turning movements based on the queues illustrated in Figure 12.

                                                22
6.     CONCLUSIONS
This traffic impact analysis was performed to determine potential traffic impacts caused by the
additional traffic generated by the subject site. It is understood that the site will consist of a
248,276 square foot manufacturing facility, and will be fully built out by the year 2012. In
addition to site-generated traffic, the study also considered the impact of background traffic
growth within the study area.


Existing Traffic Conditions
Under existing conditions, the northbound left turn movement from Old Statesville Road and the
southbound left turn movement from Statesville Road [onto Verhoeff Drive] experience minor
delays and operate at LOS A during the AM and PM peak hours. The eastbound stop-controlled
approach of Verhoeff Drive [at Old Statesville Road] experiences moderate overall delays and
operates at LOS D or better, while the westbound approach of Verhoeff Drive [at Statesville
Road] experiences greater delays and operates at LOS E and D during the AM and PM peak
hours, respectively.   The southbound left turn movement from Old Statesville Road [onto
Meacham Farm Drive] experiences minor delays and operates at LOS A during the peak hours.
The westbound stop-controlled approach of Meacham Farm Drive [at Old Statesville Road]
experiences moderate overall delays and operates at LOS D or better. All intersections are
currently under capacity during the AM and PM peak hours that corresponds to the intersection's
capacity under signalized conditions.


Future `No-Build' Traffic Conditions
A major construction project is proposed within the study area, and is expected to be completed by
2012. A new bridge will be constructed over Old Statesville Road in the immediate vicinity of the
existing intersection of Old Statesville Road and Meacham Farm Drive, which will be eliminated.
New Verhoeff Drive will be extended over Old Statesville Road and loop around to form a new
three-legged unsignalized intersection with South Church Street. The existing intersection of Old
Statesville Road and Verhoeff Drive will remain, but Old Verhoeff Drive will be realigned to
intersect New Verhoeff Drive to form a new four-legged unsignalized intersection opposite the
realigned access to CPCC.

                                               24
Under background traffic conditions with the Verhoeff Drive project completed, the northbound
left turn movement from Old Statesville Road and the southbound left turn movement from
Statesville Road [onto Verhoeff Drive] are expected to experience minor delays and operate at
LOS A during the AM and PM peak hours. The eastbound stop-controlled approach of Old
Verhoeff Drive [at Old Statesville Road] is expected to experience moderate overall delays and
operate at LOS D or better, while the westbound approach of Verhoeff Drive [at Statesville Road]
is expected to experience greater delays and operate at LOS E and D during the AM and PM peak
hours, respectively. The poorer levels of operation on the stop-controlled approach is primarily a
result of the delays experienced by the left turn movement, which is not uncommon at
unsignalized intersections.


As for the two (2) new unsignalized intersections that will be created as part of the Verhoeff Drive
project, the eastbound and westbound left turn movements from New Verhoeff Drive [onto Old
Verhoeff Drive and into CPCC] are expected to experience minor delays and operate at LOS A
during the peak hours. The northbound and southbound stop-controlled approaches of CPCC and
New Verhoeff Drive are expected to experience minor to moderate overall delays and operate at
LOS B or better. The southbound left turn movement from South Church Street [onto New
Verhoeff Drive] is expected to experience minor delays and operate at LOS A during the peak
hours. The westbound stop-controlled approach of New Verhoeff Drive is expected to experience
minor overall delays and operate at LOS A.


All intersections are expected to have additional capacity during the peak hours.


Future `Build' Traffic Conditions
Under combined traffic conditions, the northbound left turn movement from Old Statesville Road
and the southbound left turn movement from Statesville Road [onto Verhoeff Drive] are expected
to experience minor to moderate delays and operate at LOS B or better during the AM and PM
peak hours. The eastbound stop-controlled approach of Old Verhoeff Drive [at Old Statesville
Road] is expected to experience greater overall delays and operate at LOS D and E during the AM
and PM peak hours, respectively. The westbound approach of Verhoeff Drive [at Statesville
Road]

                                                25
is expected to experience greater delays and operate at LOS F and D during the AM and PM peak
hours, respectively. The poorer levels of operation on the stop-controlled approaches is primarily
a result of the delays experienced by the left turn movement, which is not uncommon at
unsignalized intersections.


As for the new unsignalized intersections, the eastbound and westbound left turn movements from
New Verhoeff Drive [onto Old Verhoeff Drive and into CPCC] are expected to experience minor
delays and operate at LOS A during the peak hours. The northbound and southbound stop-
controlled approaches of CPCC and New Verhoeff Drive are expected to experience minor to
moderate overall delays and operate at LOS C or better. The southbound left turn movement from
South Church Street [onto New Verhoeff Drive] is expected to experience minor delays and
operate at LOS A during the peak hours. The westbound stop-controlled approach of New
Verhoeff Drive is expected to experience minor overall delays and operate at LOS A.


All intersections are expected to have additional capacity during the peak hours.


In addition to the Synchro analysis, a traffic simulation model was developed utilizing SimTraffic
to evaluate the queuing conditions at the study intersections. Based on the maximum queues, the
existing and proposed storage lengths for the auxiliary turn lanes should accommodate the
projected turning movements.


In conclusion, the traffic generated by the ABB Manufacturing Facility is not expected to have a
significant impact to the surrounding transportation. With the improvements provided under the
Verhoeff Drive project, the intersections and auxiliary turn lanes are expected to accommodate the
additional traffic. While the stop-controlled approaches of Verhoeff Drive [at Statesville Road
and New Verhoeff Drive] could be expected to experience poorer overall levels of operation due
to the left turn movement delays, no improvements are recommended since exclusive left and right
turn lanes are [or will be] provided on the approaches at both unsignalized intersections.
Furthermore, the greater delays anticipated for the stop-controlled approaches are not an
uncommon occurrence at unsignalized intersections located on major thoroughfares and are
nearing levels of operation of E or F under background traffic conditions.

                                                26
TECHNICAL APPENDIX
APPENDIX A

SCOPING PACKAGE
                                          March 17, 2011
Mr. Stephen Trott, P.E.
Town of Huntersville
Transportation Staff Engineer
PO Box 664
Huntersville, NC 28070


Reference: ABB Manufacturing Facility
           Huntersville, North Carolina

Subject: Revised TIA Scoping Package


Dear Mr. Trott:

Per our meeting on February 18, 2011 and the supplemental traffic data that was collected at the
intersection of US 21 and Verhoeff Drove, the scoping package was revised for the ABB
Manufacturing Facility. The revised scoping package was prepared in accordance with the Town of
Huntersville's Traffic Impact Analysis (TIA) Process and Procedures Manual (dated July 2009).
The following information is included with the Scoping Package:
·   Site Plan (attached)
·   Vicinity Map (attached)
·   Site Trip Generation: Daily (424 vpd), AM (89 entering/26 exiting), PM (27 entering/63 exiting)
·   Site Trip Distribution Percentages (attached)

In addition to the attached information, we would like to provide the following information in
regards to the study area and analysis period. It is assumed that the study area will consist of the
following intersections:
·   Statesville Road (US 21) and Verhoeff Drive
·   Old Statesville Road (NC 115) and Verhoeff Drive
·   Old Statesville Road (NC 115) and Meacham Farm Drive (Intersection to be Eliminated)
·   New Verhoeff Drive and Old Verhoeff Drive (New Intersection)
·   South Church Street and New Verhoeff Drive (New Intersection)

The development is not anticipated to contribute 7% or more of the traffic on any approach of
nearby intersections on Old Statesville Road (NC 115) at Gilead Road and Alexanderana Road (see
attached). The proposed manufacturing facility is proposed to be fully operational by the year 2012;
therefore, the horizon year for the TIA is proposed to be the year 2012. In order to account for
future background growth that is anticipated to occur within the community and surrounding areas, a
compounded annual growth rate of 2% is proposed to be utilized to estimate future (2012) peak hour
Mr. Stephen Trott, P.E.
March 17, 2011
Page 2

traffic volumes at the study intersections. Furthermore, it is understood that there are currently no
approved developments that are anticipated to have a significant impact on the study area.

If you should have any questions, or comments, relative to this correspondence, please feel free to
contact me at (336) 725-5470.

Sincerely,
Ramey Kemp and Associates, Inc.



Jayson B. Clapp, Jr., P.E., PTOE
Regional Manager
                      THIS DRAWING IS A DOCUMENT OF SERVICE AND SHALL NOT BE REPRODUCED, ALTERED OR REUSED IN WHOLE OR IN PART WITHOUT THE WRITTEN PERMISSION OF THE ENGINEER. THESE DRAWINGS ARE PROTECTED BY THE U.S. GOVERNMENT COPYRIGHT LEGISLATION c COPYRIGHT 2010. PROFESSIONAL ENGINEERING ASSOCIATES, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      336'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 24'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     24'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        24'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              19'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              36'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             11'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    50'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROPOSED SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ZONED CB - CORPORATE BUSINESS DISTRICT

                                                                                                                                                                                                       12500 OLD STATESVILLE ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                      TOTAL PARKING SPACES 150


                                                                                                                                                                                                             HUNTERSVILLE, NC

                                                                                                                                                                                                             PARCEL - 01931101




               NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                             PROJECT #: 2010-111 - 10041 - ABB
                                SHT ISSUE DATE: 25 JAN 2011

                                                              REVIEWER: RHK

                                                                              ENGINEER: RHK

                                                                                              DRAFTER: DCJ



                                                                                                                                                 ADDENDUM 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ABB EHV CABLE                                                                       NC
            C-100




                                                                                                                                                              D     25/01/2011                                           DCJ              ISSUED FOR ADDENDUM 1
                    PROPOSED
                    SITE PLAN
SHEET NO.




                                                                                                                                                              C     18/01/2011                                          DCJ               ISSUED FOR GRADING

                                                                                                                                                              B     13/01/2011                                         DCJ                ISSUED FOR PCO5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MANUFACTURING FACILITY                                                                 COA
                                                                                                                                                              A     10/01/2011                                        DCJ                 ISSUED FOR GMP PRICING

                                                                                                                                                              NO.     DATE                                              BY                DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HUNTERSVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C-1306
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             REVISIONS
                                                                 H u n te r s v ille




                                                             e
                                                      D r iv
                                                   ff                                                             S IT E
                                               o e
                                          e rh
                                        V


    I-7 7




L E G E N D

 S tu d y A re a In te rs e c tio n s

                                                                                         A B B M A N U F A C T U R IN G F A C IL IT Y
                                                                                       H U N T E R S V IL L E , N O R T H C A R O L IN A
                                                                   N
                                                                                               S ite L o c a tio n M a p

                                                                                                     S c a le : N o t to S c a le
                                                                                                      O ld S ta te s v ille
                                                                                                     R o a d (N C 1 1 5 )




                                                                                                       2 5 %
                  S ta te s v ille
               R o a d (U S 2 1 )
                                                              O ld V e rh o e ff D r.
                                                                                                (2 5 % )
                                                                                                (4 0 % )




                                                                                                                     4 0 %
                                                                                                                               S . C h u rc h
                                                                                                                                     S t.
                                                                                 (6 5 % )
                                                                   6 5 %
                3 5 %




                                (3 5 % )                                         (3 5 % )
                                                                                                                                                  N e w   V e rh o e ff
                                                                                                                                                           D r.

                                                      3 5 %


                                                         C e n tr a l P ie d m o n t                                                  1 0 0 %
                                                       C o m m u n ity C o lle g e
                                                            A c c e ss D riv e




                                                                                                                                     (1 0 0 % )
                                                                                                                                                   S IT E




  L E G E N D

X %   (Y % )     E n te rin g (E x itin g ) T rip s


                                                                                                                    A B B M A N U F A C T U R IN G F A C IL IT Y
                                                                                                                  H U N T E R S V IL L E , N O R T H C A R O L IN A
                                                                                            N
                                                                                                               S ite T rip D is trib u tio n P e rc e n ta g e s

                                                                                                                                S c a le : N o t to S c a le              F ig u re
                 2008 Traffic                    2008                          2011                        Anticipated        AM Peak Hour     PM Peak Hour                            Combined 2011      Anticipated
                   Volumes                 Approach Volumes              Approach Volumes               Trip Distribution    Enter     Exit   Enter     Exit   Approach Totals        Approach Volumes    Site Impact
                AM        PM                 AM        PM                  AM        PM                Entering    Exiting    89       26      27       63      AM       PM             AM        PM     AM         PM
Intersection 1: NC 115 and Gilead Road
SBR             153       115
SBT             382       359                  554    500       SB        588        531                 25%                     22            7                22         7     SB    610       538     4%        1%
SBL             19         26
WBR             10         26
WBT             313       221                  353    288       WB        375        306                                                                        9          3     WB    384       309     2%        1%
WBL             30         41                                                                            10%                     9             3
NBR             14         20                                                                                       10%                 3                 6
NBT             303       463                  451    642       NB        479        681                            25%                 7                16     17        38     NB    496       719     3%        5%
NBL             134       159                                                                                       25%                 7                16
EBR             77         72                                                                            25%                     22            7
EBT             180       249                  463    662       EB        491        703                                                                        22         7     EB    513       710     4%        1%
EBL             206       341

Intersection 2: NC 115 and Alexanderana Road
SBR             107       30                                                                                        5%                  1                 3
SBT             225       242                  499    520       SB        530        552                            25%                 7                16     9         22     SB    539       574     2%        4%
SBL             167       248                                                                                       5%                  1                 3
WBR             332       211                                                                            5%                      4             1
WBT             193       161                  531    381       WB        564        404                                                                        4          1     WB    568       405     1%       <1%
WBL              6         9
NBR              1         6
NBT             266       386                  304    415       NB        323        440                 25%                     22            7                22         7     NB    345       447     6%        2%
NBL             37        23
EBR             59        68
EBT             125       295                  204    421       EB        216        447                                                                        4          1     EB    220       448     2%       <1%
EBL             20        58                                                                             5%                      4             1

NOTES:
1. The 2008 Peak Hour Traffic Volumes were obtained from the Lake Norman Charter School TIA.
2. The 2011 Peak Hour Traffic Volumes were estimated by applying a compounded annual growth rate of 2%.
3. The trip generation for the site is based on the spreadsheet data provided by ABB and Coordination with the Town and NCDOT.


                 2011 Traffic                    2011                          2012                        Anticipated        AM Peak Hour     PM Peak Hour                            Combined 2012      Anticipated
                   Volumes                 Approach Volumes              Approach Volumes               Trip Distribution    Enter     Exit   Enter     Exit   Approach Totals        Approach Volumes    Site Impact
                AM        PM                 AM        PM                  AM        PM                Entering    Exiting    89       26      27       63      AM       PM             AM        PM     AM         PM
Intersection 3: US 21 and Verhoeff Drive
SBR
SBT             683       350                  899    505       SB        917        515                                                                        31         9     SB    948       524     3%        2%
SBL             216       155                                                                            35%                     31            9
WBR             95        129                                                                                       35%                 9                22
WBT                                            147    187       WB        150        191                                                                        9         22     WB    159       213     6%       10%
WBL             52         58
NBR             80         71
NBT             270       526                  350    597       NB        357        609                                                                                         NB    357       609
NBL
EBR
EBT                                                             EB                                                                                                               EB
EBL

NOTES:
1. The 2011 Peak Hour Traffic Volumes were obtained from the Traffic Counts conducted by RKA.
2. The 2012 Peak Hour Traffic Volumes were estimated by applying a compounded annual growth rate of 2%.
3. The trip generation for the site is based on the spreadsheet data provided by ABB and Coordination with the Town and NCDOT.
  APPENDIX B

TRAFFIC COUNT DATA
                                      RAMEY KEMP & ASSOCIATES, INC.
                                                  621 Jonestown Road, Suite 221
                                               Winston Salem, North Carolina 27103
Weather: Cloudy, 40's am; Pt Cldy, 50's pm                                      File Name                  : US 21 - Statesville Road @ Verhoeff Rd
Serial #: D4-3720
                                                          336-725-5470          Site Code                  : 11010001
Collected by: DL                                                                                Start Date : 2/24/2011
Other Comments:                                                                                 Page No : 1


                                                             Groups Printed- Vehicles
                       US 21 / Statesville Road          Verhoeff Road            US 21 / Statesville Road
                             Southbound                    Westbound                     Northbound
         Start Time     Thru        Left    Trucks   Right      Left   Trucks      Right      Thru     Trucks   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
         07:00 AM        145         48         0       13         6       1          17        61         0              1            290          291
         07:15 AM        180         93         1       18        17       0          31        60         2              3            399          402
         07:30 AM        199         49         2       33        11       0          17        78         2              4            387          391
         07:45 AM        159         26         1       31        18       0          15        71         3              4            320          324
               Total     683        216         4       95        52       1          80       270         7             12           1396         1408

          08:00 AM       148        32          2       12         8        1         13        53         1              4           266          270
          08:15 AM       130        27          1       12         8        0         13        61         1              2           251          253
          08:30 AM       105        23          1       16         9        0         13        54         0              1           220          221
          08:45 AM       108        37          2       16        16        2         19        79         4              8           275          283
               Total     491       119          6       56        41        3         58       247         6             15          1012         1027

*** BREAK ***

          04:30 PM        85        30          0       33        15        0         11       110         0              0            284         284
          04:45 PM        94        32          2       39        12        0         21        91         1              3            289         292
              Total      179        62          2       72        27        0         32       201         1              3            573         576

          05:00 PM        92        23          1      29         14        0         16       128         0              1           302          303
          05:15 PM        97        58          0      38         22        0         19       164         2              2           398          400
          05:30 PM        67        42          0      23         10        0         15       143         0              0           300          300
          05:45 PM        75        31          1      29         18        0         21       114         0              1           288          289
              Total      331       154          2     119         64        0         71       549         2              4          1288         1292

         06:00 PM          69        37         0        17        10       0          19       135        0              0           287          287
         06:15 PM          86        32         3        31        13       0          15        92        0              3           269          272
        Grand Total     1839        620        17      390       207        4        275      1494        16             37          4825         4862
         Apprch %        74.8      25.2               65.3      34.7                15.5       84.5
           Total %       38.1      12.8                 8.1       4.3                 5.7        31                     0.8           99.2
                                          RAMEY KEMP & ASSOCIATES, INC.
                                                      621 Jonestown Road, Suite 221
                                                   Winston Salem, North Carolina 27103
Weather: Cloudy, 40's am; Pt Cldy, 50's pm                                          File Name                         : US 21 - Statesville Road @ Verhoeff Rd
Serial #: D4-3720
                                                              336-725-5470          Site Code                         : 11010001
Collected by: DL                                                                                           Start Date : 2/24/2011
Other Comments:                                                                                            Page No : 2



                                  US 21 / Statesville Road                      Verhoeff Road                   US 21 / Statesville Road
                                       Southbound                                Westbound                           Northbound
             Start Time         Thru           Left    App. Total         Right       Left    App. Total       Right       Thru      App. Total                 Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
             07:00 AM             145           48            193            13                 6    19           17             61                       78         290
             07:15 AM             180           93            273            18                17    35           31             60                       91         399
             07:30 AM             199           49            248            33                11    44           17             78                       95         387
             07:45 AM             159           26            185            31                18    49           15             71                       86         320
         Total Volume             683          216            899            95                52   147           80            270                      350        1396
          % App. Total             76           24                         64.6              35.4               22.9           77.1
                   PHF           .858         .581           .823          .720              .722   .750        .645           .865                      .921        .875

                                                                      US 21 / Statesville Road
                                                                      Out        In       Total
                                                                       365        899      1264


                                                                                683    216
                                                                               Thru   Left




                                                                    Peak Hour Data



                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                296
                                                                                 North




                                                                                                                                   Verhoeff Road
                                                                                                                       Right
                                                                                                                          95



                                                                                                                                        In
                                                                    Peak Hour Begins at 07:00 AM                                         147
                                                                                                                       Left
                                                                                                                         52




                                                                    Vehicles
                                                                                                                                                 Total
                                                                                                                                                  443




                                                                               Thru Right
                                                                                270    80


                                                                       735        350      1085
                                                                      Out        In       Total
                                                                      US 21 / Statesville Road
                                          RAMEY KEMP & ASSOCIATES, INC.
                                                      621 Jonestown Road, Suite 221
                                                   Winston Salem, North Carolina 27103
Weather: Cloudy, 40's am; Pt Cldy, 50's pm                                          File Name                         : US 21 - Statesville Road @ Verhoeff Rd
Serial #: D4-3720
                                                              336-725-5470          Site Code                         : 11010001
Collected by: DL                                                                                           Start Date : 2/24/2011
Other Comments:                                                                                            Page No : 3


                                  US 21 / Statesville Road                      Verhoeff Road                   US 21 / Statesville Road
                                       Southbound                                Westbound                           Northbound
             Start Time         Thru           Left    App. Total         Right       Left    App. Total       Right       Thru      App. Total                 Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:30 PM to 06:15 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
              04:45 PM             94           32            126            39                12    51           21             91                      112         289
              05:00 PM             92           23            115            29                14    43           16            128                      144         302
              05:15 PM             97           58            155            38                22    60           19            164                      183         398
              05:30 PM             67           42            109            23                10    33           15            143                      158         300
         Total Volume             350          155            505           129                58   187           71            526                      597        1289
          % App. Total           69.3         30.7                           69                31               11.9           88.1
                   PHF           .902         .668           .815          .827              .659   .779        .845           .802                      .816        .810

                                                                      US 21 / Statesville Road
                                                                      Out        In       Total
                                                                       655        505      1160


                                                                                350    155
                                                                               Thru   Left




                                                                    Peak Hour Data




                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                226
                                                                                 North




                                                                                                                                   Verhoeff Road
                                                                                                                       Right
                                                                                                                         129



                                                                                                                                        In
                                                                    Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM
                                                                                                                                         187
                                                                                                                       Left
                                                                                                                         58



                                                                    Vehicles
                                                                                                                                                 Total
                                                                                                                                                  413




                                                                               Thru Right
                                                                                526    71


                                                                       408        597      1005
                                                                      Out        In       Total
                                                                      US 21 / Statesville Road
                                       RAMEY KEMP & ASSOCIATES, INC.
                                                   621 Jonestown Road, Suite 221
                                                Winston Salem, North Carolina 27103
Weather: Cloudy, 40's am; Pt Cldy, 50's pm                                  File Name : NC 115 - Old Statesville Road @ Verhoeff Road
Serial #: D4-3268
                                                           336-725-5470     Site Code : 11010003
Collected by: SM                                                                              Start Date : 2/24/2011
Other Comments:                                                                               Page No : 1


                                                                Groups Printed- Vehicles
                       NC 115 / Old Statesville Road NC 115 / Old Statesville Road        Verhoeff Road
                               Southbound                    Northbound                     Eastbound
         Start Time      Right       Thru     Trucks    Thru       Left     Trucks    Right      Left   Trucks         Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
         07:00 AM           11        162          5      56         10          0       35         3       0                    5            277          282
         07:15 AM           13        187          2      74         26          2       76         1       0                    4            377          381
         07:30 AM           18        111          0      94         34          1       54         1       0                    1            312          313
         07:45 AM           19        130          2     102         41          5       12         2       0                    7            306          313
               Total        61        590          9     326        111          8      177         7       0                   17           1272         1289

          08:00 AM           18      114        2         52        12        7         11            3         1               10            210         220
          08:15 AM           10      130        6         44         8        2          5            6         0                8            203         211
          08:30 AM            9      115        3         32        15        1          6            5         0                4            182         186
          08:45 AM           15       96        4         42        21        2          6            6         0                6            186         192
               Total         52      455       15        170        56       12         28           20         1               28            781         809

*** BREAK ***

          04:30 PM           10       62         1       130        13        4         24            6         0                5            245         250
          04:45 PM           13       70         4       135        12        0         25           17         0                4            272         276
              Total          23      132         5       265        25        4         49           23         0                9            517         526

          05:00 PM           14       66         1       162        22        1         14           14         0                2           292          294
          05:15 PM           15       68         1       158        20        1         31           16         0                2           308          310
          05:30 PM            6       57         2       194        28        1         19           20         0                3           324          327
          05:45 PM           13       61         0       171        13        1         19           14         0                1           291          292
              Total          48      252         4       685        83        4         83           64         0                8          1215         1223

         06:00 PM             14       69       0         130       11        0          24           22        0                0           270          270
         06:15 PM              9       50       1          98       13        0          18           14        1                2           202          204
        Grand Total         207     1548       34       1674       299       28        379          150         2               64          4257         4321
         Apprch %          11.8      88.2                84.8     15.2                71.6         28.4
           Total %           4.9     36.4                39.3        7                  8.9          3.5                       1.5           98.5
                                                         RAMEY KEMP & ASSOCIATES, INC.
                                                               621 Jonestown Road, Suite 221
                                                            Winston Salem, North Carolina 27103
Weather: Cloudy, 40's am; Pt Cldy, 50's pm                                              File Name : NC 115 - Old Statesville Road @ Verhoeff Road
Serial #: D4-3268
                                                                       336-725-5470     Site Code : 11010003
Collected by: SM                                                                                       Start Date : 2/24/2011
Other Comments:                                                                                        Page No : 2



                               NC 115 / Old Statesville Road               NC 115 / Old Statesville Road                 Verhoeff Road
                                       Southbound                                  Northbound                             Eastbound
             Start Time         Right        Thru      App. Total           Thru         Left      App. Total      Right       Left    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
             07:00 AM              11          162            173               56              10        66          35            3         38         277
             07:15 AM              13          187            200               74              26       100          76            1         77         377
             07:30 AM              18          111            129               94              34       128          54            1         55         312
             07:45 AM              19          130            149              102              41       143          12            2         14         306
         Total Volume              61          590            651              326             111       437         177            7        184        1272
          % App. Total             9.4        90.6                            74.6            25.4                  96.2          3.8
                   PHF           .803         .789           .814             .799            .677       .764       .582        .583         .597        .844

                                                                       NC 115 / Old Statesville Road
                                                                         Out        In        Total
                                                                          333        651        984


                                                                                    61  590
                                                                                 Right Thru




                                                                      Peak Hour Data
                                          356
                                         Total




                                                                                   North
                           Verhoeff Road




                                                     7
                                                 Left
                                  184
                                  In




                                                                      Peak Hour Begins at 07:00 AM
                                                   177
                                                 Right




                                                                      Vehicles
                         172
                        Out




                                                                                 Left Thru
                                                                                  111  326


                                                                          767        437       1204
                                                                         Out        In        Total
                                                                       NC 115 / Old Statesville Road
                                                         RAMEY KEMP & ASSOCIATES, INC.
                                                               621 Jonestown Road, Suite 221
                                                            Winston Salem, North Carolina 27103
Weather: Cloudy, 40's am; Pt Cldy, 50's pm                                              File Name : NC 115 - Old Statesville Road @ Verhoeff Road
Serial #: D4-3268
                                                                       336-725-5470     Site Code : 11010003
Collected by: SM                                                                                       Start Date : 2/24/2011
Other Comments:                                                                                        Page No : 3


                               NC 115 / Old Statesville Road               NC 115 / Old Statesville Road                 Verhoeff Road
                                       Southbound                                  Northbound                             Eastbound
             Start Time         Right        Thru      App. Total           Thru         Left      App. Total      Right       Left    App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:30 PM to 06:15 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
              05:00 PM             14           66             80              162              22       184          14          14          28         292
              05:15 PM             15           68             83              158              20       178          31          16          47         308
              05:30 PM              6           57             63              194              28       222          19          20          39         324
              05:45 PM             13           61             74              171              13       184          19          14          33         291
         Total Volume              48          252            300              685              83       768          83          64         147        1215
          % App. Total             16           84                            89.2            10.8                  56.5        43.5
                   PHF           .800         .926           .904             .883            .741       .865       .669        .800         .782        .938

                                                                       NC 115 / Old Statesville Road
                                                                         Out        In        Total
                                                                          749        300       1049


                                                                                    48  252
                                                                                 Right Thru




                                                                      Peak Hour Data
                                          278
                                         Total




                                                                                   North
                           Verhoeff Road




                                                   64
                                                 Left
                                   147
                                  In




                                                                      Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                    83
                                                 Right




                                                                      Vehicles
                         131
                        Out




                                                                                 Left Thru
                                                                                   83  685


                                                                          335        768       1103
                                                                         Out        In        Total
                                                                       NC 115 / Old Statesville Road
                                        RAMEY KEMP & ASSOCIATES, INC.
                                                    621 Jonestown Road, Suite 221
                                                 Winston Salem, North Carolina 27103
Weather: Cloudy, 40's am; Pt Cldy 50's p
Serial #: D4-5249
                                                            336-725-5470 File     Name : NC 115 @ Meacham Farm Drive - Cars & Trucks
                                                                             Site Code : 11010004
Collected by: MS                                                                         Start Date : 2/24/2011
Other Comments:                                                                          Page No : 1


                                                           Groups Printed- Vehicles - Trucks
                       NC 115 / Old Statesville Road       Meacham Drive          NC 115 / Old Statesville Road
                               Southbound                    Westbound                      Northbound
         Start Time       Thru       Left     Trucks   Right      Left   Trucks       Right      Thru    Trucks   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
         07:00 AM          198          5          4      23       28         0           2        42         0             4            298          302
         07:15 AM          255          2          3       3        4         2           1        94         3             8            359          367
         07:30 AM          174          0          0       0       11         0           3       133         2             2            321          323
         07:45 AM          134          2          2       1        1         1           0       140         4             7            278          285
               Total       761          9          9      27       44         3           6       409         9            21           1256         1277

          08:00 AM         126          4         3       1          1        1          1        62         6             10            195         205
          08:15 AM         132          4         6       1          0        0          3        51         2              8            191         199
          08:30 AM         120          1         3       3          2        2          3        46         2              7            175         182
          08:45 AM          99          2         5       1          2        1          9        57         0              6            170         176
               Total       477         11        17       6          5        4         16       216        10             31            731         762

*** BREAK ***

          04:30 PM          92          0         1       7          4        3          3       137         2              6            243         249
          04:45 PM          85          0         4       1          1        0          1       147         0              4            235         239
              Total        177          0         5       8          5        3          4       284         2             10            478         488

          05:00 PM          85          1         1       2          3        0          2       181         2              3           274          277
          05:15 PM          95          1         1       2          3        2          5       178         1              4           284          288
          05:30 PM          78          2         2       4          2        1          0       214         0              3           300          303
          05:45 PM          78          1         0       4          1        1          5       179         0              1           268          269
              Total        336          5         4      12          9        4         12       752         3             11          1126         1137

         06:00 PM            84         7         0        0         3        0          1        140        0              0           235          235
         06:15 PM            53        10         2        0         2        0          8        114        0              2           187          189
        Grand Total       1888         42        37       53        68       14         47      1915        24             75          4013         4088
         Apprch %          97.8       2.2               43.8      56.2                 2.4       97.6
           Total %           47         1                1.3       1.7                 1.2       47.7                     1.8           98.2
           Vehicles       1856         37                 44        63                  43      1895                        0              0        4013
        % Vehicles         98.3      88.1       100       83      92.6       100      91.5         99      100              0              0         98.2
            Trucks           32         5                  9         5                   4         20                       0              0           75
          % Trucks          1.7      11.9         0       17       7.4         0       8.5          1        0              0              0          1.8
                                          RAMEY KEMP & ASSOCIATES, INC.
                                                       621 Jonestown Road, Suite 221
                                                    Winston Salem, North Carolina 27103
Weather: Cloudy, 40's am; Pt Cldy 50's p
Serial #: D4-5249
                                                               336-725-5470 File     Name : NC 115 @ Meacham Farm Drive - Cars & Trucks
                                                                                Site Code : 11010004
Collected by: MS                                                                                       Start Date : 2/24/2011
Other Comments:                                                                                        Page No : 2



                               NC 115 / Old Statesville Road                     Meacham Drive                     NC 115 / Old Statesville Road
                                       Southbound                                 Westbound                                Northbound
             Start Time         Thru           Left    App. Total          Right       Left    App. Total           Right       Thru       App. Total            Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
             07:00 AM             198             5           203             23                  28        51          2                42               44          298
             07:15 AM             255             2           257               3                  4         7          1                94               95          359
             07:30 AM             174             0           174               0                 11        11          3               133              136          321
             07:45 AM             134             2           136               1                  1         2          0               140              140          278
         Total Volume             761             9           770             27                  44        71          6               409              415         1256
          % App. Total           98.8           1.2                           38                  62                  1.4              98.6
                   PHF           .746         .450           .749           .293                .393      .348       .500              .730              .741         .875
               Vehicles           753             8           761             26                  42        68          4               402               406        1235
            % Vehicles           98.9         88.9           98.8           96.3                95.5      95.8       66.7              98.3              97.8         98.3
                Trucks               8            1              9              1                  2          3         2                  7                 9          21
              % Trucks             1.1        11.1             1.2            3.7                4.5        4.2      33.3                1.7               2.2          1.7

                                                                     NC 115 / Old Statesville Road
                                                                       Out        In       Total
                                                                        428        761      1189
                                                                           8         9        17
                                                                        436        770      1206


                                                                                 753        8
                                                                                    8       1
                                                                                 761        9
                                                                                Thru    Left




                                                                     Peak Hour Data
                                                                                                                                Out
                                                                                                                                  15

                                                                                                                                  12
                                                                                                                                    3


                                                                                   North                                            Meacham Drive
                                                                                                                  Right
                                                                                                                     27

                                                                                                                     26




                                                                     Peak Hour Begins at 07:00 AM
                                                                                                                      1




                                                                                                                                         In
                                                                                                                                           71

                                                                                                                                           68
                                                                                                                  Left




                                                                                                                                            3




                                                                     Vehicles
                                                                                                                    44

                                                                                                                    42




                                                                     Trucks
                                                                                                                      2




                                                                                                                                                 Total
                                                                                                                                                    86

                                                                                                                                                    80
                                                                                                                                                     6




                                                                                Thru Right
                                                                                 402     4
                                                                                    7    2
                                                                                 409     6


                                                                        795        406      1201
                                                                         10          9        19
                                                                        805        415      1220
                                                                       Out        In       Total
                                                                     NC 115 / Old Statesville Road
                                          RAMEY KEMP & ASSOCIATES, INC.
                                                       621 Jonestown Road, Suite 221
                                                    Winston Salem, North Carolina 27103
Weather: Cloudy, 40's am; Pt Cldy 50's p
Serial #: D4-5249
                                                               336-725-5470 File     Name : NC 115 @ Meacham Farm Drive - Cars & Trucks
                                                                                Site Code : 11010004
Collected by: MS                                                                                       Start Date : 2/24/2011
Other Comments:                                                                                        Page No : 3


                               NC 115 / Old Statesville Road                     Meacham Drive                     NC 115 / Old Statesville Road
                                       Southbound                                 Westbound                                Northbound
             Start Time         Thru           Left    App. Total          Right       Left    App. Total           Right       Thru       App. Total            Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:30 PM to 06:15 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
              05:00 PM             85             1            86              2                   3         5          2               181              183          274
              05:15 PM             95             1            96              2                   3         5          5               178              183          284
              05:30 PM             78             2            80              4                   2         6          0               214              214          300
              05:45 PM             78             1            79              4                   1         5          5               179              184          268
         Total Volume             336             5           341             12                   9        21         12               752              764         1126
          % App. Total           98.5           1.5                         57.1                42.9                  1.6              98.4
                   PHF           .884         .625           .888           .750                .750      .875       .600              .879              .893         .938
               Vehicles           333             4           337              9                   8        17         11               750               761        1115
            % Vehicles           99.1         80.0           98.8           75.0                88.9      81.0       91.7              99.7              99.6         99.0
                 Trucks              3            1              4             3                   1         4          1                  2                 3          11
              % Trucks             0.9        20.0             1.2          25.0                11.1      19.0        8.3                0.3               0.4          1.0

                                                                     NC 115 / Old Statesville Road
                                                                       Out        In       Total
                                                                        759        337      1096
                                                                           5         4         9
                                                                        764        341      1105


                                                                                 333        4
                                                                                    3       1
                                                                                 336        5
                                                                                Thru    Left




                                                                     Peak Hour Data

                                                                                                                                Out
                                                                                                                                  17

                                                                                                                                  15
                                                                                                                                    2


                                                                                                                                    Meacham Drive
                                                                                   North
                                                                                                                 Right
                                                                                                                    12




                                                                     Peak Hour Begins at 05:00 PM
                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                     9




                                                                                                                                         In
                                                                                                                                           21

                                                                                                                                           17
                                                                                                                 Left




                                                                                                                                            4




                                                                     Vehicles
                                                                     Trucks
                                                                                                                     9
                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                     8




                                                                                                                                                 Total
                                                                                                                                                    38

                                                                                                                                                    32
                                                                                                                                                     6




                                                                                Thru Right
                                                                                 750    11
                                                                                    2    1
                                                                                 752    12


                                                                        341        761      1102
                                                                           4         3         7
                                                                        345        764      1109
                                                                       Out        In       Total
                                                                     NC 115 / Old Statesville Road
                                     RAMEY KEMP & ASSOCIATES, INC.
                                                   621 Jonestown Road, Suite 221
                                                Winston Salem, North Carolina 27103
Weather: Cloudy, 40's am; Pt Cldy, 50's pm
Serial #: D4-3265
                                                           336-725-5470File  Name : Central Piedmont Comm Col Driveway @ Verhoeff Rd
                                                                        Site Code : 11010002
Collected by: EM                                                                    Start Date : 2/24/2011
Other Comments:                                                                     Page No : 1


                                                               Groups Printed- Vehicles
                                                         Central Piedmont
                           Verhoeff Road                                                 Verhoeff Road
                                                      Community College Access
                            Westbound                                                      Eastbound
                                                             Northbound
         Start Time     Thru       Left      Trucks    Right      Left   Trucks      Right      Thru   Trucks    Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
         07:00 AM          0         8           0         1         0        0          4         0       0               0             13           13
         07:15 AM          0         9           0         0         0        0          8         0       0               0             17           17
         07:30 AM          0         8           0         1         1        0          6         0       0               0             16           16
         07:45 AM          0         6           0         2         0        0          1         0       0               0              9            9
               Total       0        31           0         4         1        0         19         0       0               0             55           55

          08:00 AM         0         4           0         0         1        0         2         0          1             1              7            8
          08:15 AM         0         2           0         2         0        0         1         0          0             0              5            5
          08:30 AM         0         1           1         1         0        0         0         0          0             1              2            3
          08:45 AM         0         2           1         0         2        0         1         0          0             1              5            6
               Total       0         9           2         3         3        0         4         0          1             3             19           22

*** BREAK ***

          04:30 PM         0         0           0         3         2        0         1         0          0             0              6            6
          04:45 PM         0         1           0         7         5        0         1         0          0             0             14           14
              Total        0         1           0        10         7        0         2         0          0             0             20           20

          05:00 PM         0         1           0         5         0        0         0         0          0             0              6            6
          05:15 PM         0         0           0         2         1        0         0         0          0             0              3            3
          05:30 PM         0         4           0         0         0        0         0         0          0             0              4            4
          05:45 PM         0         2           0         2         0        0         1         0          0             0              5            5
              Total        0         7           0         9         1        0         1         0          0             0             18           18

         06:00 PM          0         1           0         3         0        0         0         0          0             0              4           4
         06:15 PM          0         1           0         0         1        0         2         0          1             1              4           5
        Grand Total        0        50           2        29        13        0        28         0          2             4            120         124
         Apprch %          0       100                    69        31                100         0
           Total %         0      41.7                  24.2      10.8               23.3         0                      3.2           96.8
                                     RAMEY KEMP & ASSOCIATES, INC.
                                               621 Jonestown Road, Suite 221
                                            Winston Salem, North Carolina 27103
Weather: Cloudy, 40's am; Pt Cldy 50's pm                                 File Name            : South Church Street @ Meacham Farm Drive
Serial #: D4-5249
                                                       336-725-5470       Site Code            : 11010004
Collected by: MS                                                                    Start Date : 2/24/2011
Other Comments:                                                                     Page No : 1


                                                          Groups Printed- Bank 1
                        South Church Street       Meacham Farm Drive           Meacham Farm Drive
                             Southbound                 Westbound                   Eastbound
         Start Time    Right       Left  Trucks   Right     Thru   Trucks      Thru      Left Trucks   Exclu. Total   Inclu. Total   Int. Total
         07:00 AM          0         0       0        1        0        0         0        0      1              1              1            2
         07:15 AM          0         0       0        1        0        2         0        0      0              2              1            3
         07:30 AM          8         0       0        0        0        0         0        0      0              0              8            8
         07:45 AM          1         0       0        0        0        1         0        0      0              1              1            2
               Total       9         0       0        2        0        3         0        0      1              4             11           15

         08:00 AM          0         0       0       0        0        1        0        0        1              2              0            2
*** BREAK ***
         08:30 AM          0         0       0       0        0        2        0        0        1              3              0            3
         08:45 AM          0         0       0       0        0        1        0        0        1              2              0            2
              Total        0         0       0       0        0        4        0        0        3              7              0            7

*** BREAK ***

          04:30 PM         4         0       2       0        0        1        0        3        0              3              7           10
          04:45 PM         1         0       0       0        0        0        0        1        0              0              2            2
              Total        5         0       2       0        0        1        0        4        0              3              9           12

          05:00 PM         1         0       0       0        0        0        0        1        1              1              2            3
          05:15 PM         2         0       0       0        0        0        0        3        0              0              5            5
          05:30 PM         2         0       0       0        0        1        0        0        0              1              2            3
          05:45 PM         0         0       0       0        0        1        0        2        0              1              2            3
              Total        5         0       0       0        0        2        0        6        1              3             11           14

*** BREAK ***
         06:15 PM          0         0       0        0       0        0        0         0       1              1              0            1
        Grand Total       19         0       2        2       0       10        0        10       6             18             31           49
         Apprch %        100         0             100        0                 0       100
           Total %      61.3         0              6.5       0                 0      32.3                   36.7           63.3
         APPENDIX C

   CAPACITY ANALYSIS REPORTS
EXISTING (2011) TRAFFIC CONDITIONS
ABB Manufacturing Facility                                                              1: Verhoeff Dr. & Old Statesville Rd.
Existing (2011) Traffic Conditions                                                                                 AM Peak Hour



Movement                            EBL    EBR     NBL     NBT       SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                         7    177     111     326       593       61
Sign Control                        Stop                   Free      Free
Grade                                0%                     0%        0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.88   0.88    0.88    0.88      0.88     0.88
Hourly flow rate (vph)                 8    201     126     370       674       69
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                None     None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              1331    709     743
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  1331    709     743
tC, single (s)                       6.4    6.2     4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                              3.5     3.3     2.2
p0 queue free %                      95      54      85
cM capacity (veh/h)                 145     434     864
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   NB 1    SB 1
Volume Total                         209    497     743
Volume Left                            8    126       0
Volume Right                         201      0      69
cSH                                  404    864    1700
Volume to Capacity                  0.52   0.15    0.44
Queue Length 95th (ft)                72     13       0
Control Delay (s)                   23.1    3.9     0.0
Lane LOS                               C      A
Approach Delay (s)                  23.1    3.9      0.0
Approach LOS                           C
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        4.7
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 79.5%          ICU Level of Service                   D
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




                                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
ABB Manufacturing Facility                                                               2: Verhoeff Dr. & Statesville Rd.
Existing (2011) Traffic Conditions                                                                              AM Peak Hour



Movement                            WBL    WBR      NBT     NBR       SBL      SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        52     95      270      80       216      683
Sign Control                        Stop            Free                       Free
Grade                                0%              0%                         0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.88    0.88    0.88    0.88      0.88     0.88
Hourly flow rate (vph)                59     108     307      91       245      776
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                        None                       None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              1574    307                        398
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  1574    307                        398
tC, single (s)                       6.4    6.2                        4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               3.5    3.3                        2.2
p0 queue free %                       38     85                         79
cM capacity (veh/h)                   95    733                       1161
Direction, Lane #               WB 1       WB 2     NB 1    NB 2      SB 1     SB 2
Volume Total                       59        108     307      91       245      776
Volume Left                        59          0       0       0       245        0
Volume Right                        0        108       0      91         0        0
cSH                                95        733    1700    1700      1161     1700
Volume to Capacity               0.62       0.15    0.18    0.05      0.21     0.46
Queue Length 95th (ft)             74         13       0       0        20        0
Control Delay (s)                90.6       10.8     0.0     0.0       8.9      0.0
Lane LOS                            F          B                         A
Approach Delay (s)               39.0                 0.0              2.1
Approach LOS                        E
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                         5.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  45.9%          ICU Level of Service               A
Analysis Period (min)                                  15




                                                                                                            Synchro 7 - Report
ABB Manufacturing Facility                                                  3: Meacham Farm Dr. & Old Statesville Rd.
Existing (2011) Traffic Conditions                                                                          AM Peak Hour



Movement                            WBL    WBR     NBT     NBR       SBL      SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        44     27     410      6          9      761
Sign Control                        Stop           Free                       Free
Grade                                0%             0%                         0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.88   0.88    0.88    0.88      0.88     0.88
Hourly flow rate (vph)                50     31     466       7        10      865
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                       None                       None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              1355    469                       473
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  1355    469                       473
tC, single (s)                       6.4    6.2                       4.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                              3.5     3.3                       2.3
p0 queue free %                      69      95                        99
cM capacity (veh/h)                 161     590                      1044
Direction, Lane #               WB 1       NB 1    SB 1
Volume Total                       81       473     875
Volume Left                        50         0      10
Volume Right                       31         7       0
cSH                               222      1700    1044
Volume to Capacity               0.36      0.28    0.01
Queue Length 95th (ft)             39         0       1
Control Delay (s)                30.1       0.0     0.3
Lane LOS                            D                 A
Approach Delay (s)               30.1       0.0     0.3
Approach LOS                        D
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        1.9
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 58.0%          ICU Level of Service             B
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




                                                                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
ABB Manufacturing Facility                                                              1: Verhoeff Dr. & Old Statesville Rd.
Existing (2011) Traffic Conditions                                                                                 PM Peak Hour



Movement                            EBL    EBR     NBL     NBT       SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        64     83      83     685       258       48
Sign Control                        Stop                   Free      Free
Grade                                0%                     0%        0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.88   0.88    0.88    0.88      0.88     0.88
Hourly flow rate (vph)                73     94      94     778       293       55
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                None     None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              1288    320     348
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  1288    320     348
tC, single (s)                       6.4    6.2     4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                              3.5     3.3     2.2
p0 queue free %                      56      87      92
cM capacity (veh/h)                 167     720    1211
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   NB 1    SB 1
Volume Total                         167    873     348
Volume Left                           73     94       0
Volume Right                          94      0      55
cSH                                  295   1211    1700
Volume to Capacity                  0.57   0.08    0.20
Queue Length 95th (ft)                81      6       0
Control Delay (s)                   32.0    1.9     0.0
Lane LOS                               D      A
Approach Delay (s)                  32.0    1.9      0.0
Approach LOS                           D
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        5.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 75.8%          ICU Level of Service                   D
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




                                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
ABB Manufacturing Facility                                                               2: Verhoeff Dr. & Statesville Rd.
Existing (2011) Traffic Conditions                                                                              PM Peak Hour



Movement                            WBL    WBR      NBT     NBR       SBL      SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        58    129      526      71       155      350
Sign Control                        Stop            Free                       Free
Grade                                0%              0%                         0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.88    0.88    0.88    0.88      0.88     0.88
Hourly flow rate (vph)                66     147     598      81       176      398
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                        None                       None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              1348    598                        678
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  1348    598                        678
tC, single (s)                       6.4    6.2                        4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                              3.5     3.3                        2.2
p0 queue free %                      51      71                         81
cM capacity (veh/h)                 134     502                        914
Direction, Lane #               WB 1       WB 2     NB 1    NB 2      SB 1     SB 2
Volume Total                       66        147     598      81       176      398
Volume Left                        66          0       0       0       176        0
Volume Right                        0        147       0      81         0        0
cSH                               134        502    1700    1700       914     1700
Volume to Capacity               0.49       0.29    0.35    0.05      0.19     0.23
Queue Length 95th (ft)             57         30       0       0        18        0
Control Delay (s)                55.2       15.1     0.0     0.0       9.9      0.0
Lane LOS                            F          C                         A
Approach Delay (s)               27.5                 0.0              3.0
Approach LOS                        D
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                         5.2
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  49.6%          ICU Level of Service               A
Analysis Period (min)                                  15




                                                                                                            Synchro 7 - Report
ABB Manufacturing Facility                                                  3: Meacham Farm Dr. & Old Statesville Rd.
Existing (2011) Traffic Conditions                                                                          PM Peak Hour



Movement                            WBL    WBR     NBT     NBR       SBL      SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                         9     12     756     12          5      336
Sign Control                        Stop           Free                       Free
Grade                                0%             0%                         0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.88   0.88    0.88    0.88      0.88     0.88
Hourly flow rate (vph)                10     14     859      14         6      382
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                       None                       None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              1259    866                       873
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  1259    866                       873
tC, single (s)                       6.5    6.5                       4.3
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                              3.6     3.5                       2.4
p0 queue free %                      94      96                        99
cM capacity (veh/h)                 179     321                       702
Direction, Lane #               WB 1       NB 1    SB 1
Volume Total                       24       873     388
Volume Left                        10         0       6
Volume Right                       14        14       0
cSH                               240      1700     702
Volume to Capacity               0.10      0.51    0.01
Queue Length 95th (ft)              8         0       1
Control Delay (s)                21.7       0.0     0.3
Lane LOS                            C                 A
Approach Delay (s)               21.7       0.0     0.3
Approach LOS                        C
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        0.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 50.5%          ICU Level of Service             A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




                                                                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
       APPENDIX D

VERHOEFF DRIVE ROADWAY PLANS
          APPENDIX E

     CAPACITY ANALYSIS REPORTS
BACKGROUND (2012) TRAFFIC CONDITIONS
ABB Manufacturing Facility                                                     1: Old Verhoeff Dr. & Old Statesville Rd.
Background (2012) Traffic Conditions                                                                          AM Peak Hour



Movement                            EBL    EBR     NBL     NBT       SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        29   224      113     311       598       70
Sign Control                        Stop                   Free      Free
Grade                                0%                     0%        0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.88   0.88    0.88    0.88      0.88     0.88
Hourly flow rate (vph)                33    255     128     353       680       80
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                None     None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              1290   680      759
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  1290   680      759
tC, single (s)                       6.4   6.2      4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                              3.5    3.3      2.2
p0 queue free %                      78     44       85
cM capacity (veh/h)                 153    451      852
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   EB 2    NB 1    NB 2      SB 1     SB 2
Volume Total                          33    255     128     353       680       80
Volume Left                           33      0     128       0         0        0
Volume Right                           0    255       0       0         0       80
cSH                                  153    451     852    1700      1700     1700
Volume to Capacity                  0.22   0.56    0.15    0.21      0.40     0.05
Queue Length 95th (ft)                20     85      13       0         0        0
Control Delay (s)                   35.0   22.8    10.0     0.0       0.0      0.0
Lane LOS                               D      C       A
Approach Delay (s)                  24.2            2.7               0.0
Approach LOS                           C
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        5.4
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 52.0%          ICU Level of Service              A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




                                                                                                          Synchro 7 - Report
ABB Manufacturing Facility                                                               2: Verhoeff Dr. & Statesville Rd.
Background (2012) Traffic Conditions                                                                            AM Peak Hour



Movement                            WBL    WBR      NBT     NBR       SBL      SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        53     97      275      82       220      697
Sign Control                        Stop            Free                       Free
Grade                                0%              0%                         0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.88    0.88    0.88    0.88      0.88     0.88
Hourly flow rate (vph)                60     110     312      93       250      792
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                        None                       None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              1605    312                        406
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  1605    312                        406
tC, single (s)                       6.4    6.2                        4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               3.5    3.3                        2.2
p0 queue free %                       34     85                         78
cM capacity (veh/h)                   91    728                       1153
Direction, Lane #               WB 1       WB 2     NB 1    NB 2      SB 1     SB 2
Volume Total                       60        110     312      93       250      792
Volume Left                        60          0       0       0       250        0
Volume Right                        0        110       0      93         0        0
cSH                                91        728    1700    1700      1153     1700
Volume to Capacity               0.66       0.15    0.18    0.05      0.22     0.47
Queue Length 95th (ft)             80         13       0       0        21        0
Control Delay (s)               101.5       10.8     0.0     0.0       9.0      0.0
Lane LOS                            F          B                         A
Approach Delay (s)               42.9                 0.0              2.2
Approach LOS                        E
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                         5.9
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  46.7%          ICU Level of Service               A
Analysis Period (min)                                  15




                                                                                                            Synchro 7 - Report
ABB Manufacturing Facility                                                       4: New Verhoeff Dr. & Old Verhoeff Dr.
Background (2012) Traffic Conditions                                                                                AM Peak Hour



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL       WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                      182       2      19       0         6       67        1       4     0     13      32     138
Sign Control                               Free                      Free                      Stop                 Stop
Grade                                       0%                        0%                        0%                   0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.88   0.88    0.88     0.88     0.88     0.88      0.88   0.88   0.88   0.88   0.88    0.88
Hourly flow rate (vph)               207      2      22        0        7       76         1      5      0     15     36     157
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                None                     None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume               83                      24                         609    510     13    463     482      45
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                    83                      24                        609    510      13   463     482       45
tC, single (s)                       4.1                     4.1                        7.1    6.5     6.2   7.3     6.5      6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               2.2                    2.2                         3.5    4.0     3.3   3.7     4.0     3.3
p0 queue free %                       86                    100                         100     99     100    97      91      85
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1514                   1591                         289    403    1067   422     418    1025
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   EB 2   WB 1     WB 2      NB 1    NB 2       SB 1   SB 2
Volume Total                         207     24       0       83        1       5         15    193
Volume Left                          207      0       0        0        1       0         15      0
Volume Right                           0     22       0       76        0       0          0    157
cSH                                 1514   1700   1700     1700       289     403        422    805
Volume to Capacity                  0.14   0.01    0.00     0.05     0.00    0.01       0.03   0.24
Queue Length 95th (ft)                12      0       0        0        0       1          3     23
Control Delay (s)                    7.8    0.0     0.0      0.0     17.5    14.0       13.8   10.9
Lane LOS                               A                                C       B          B      B
Approach Delay (s)                   7.0             0.0             14.7               11.1
Approach LOS                                                            B                  B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        7.6
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 33.6%          ICU Level of Service                   A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




                                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
ABB Manufacturing Facility                                                              5: New Verhoeff Dr. & S. Church St.
Background (2012) Traffic Conditions                                                                             AM Peak Hour



Movement                            WBL    WBR     NBT     NBR       SBL      SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        15     0        2     64          9        0
Sign Control                        Stop           Free                       Free
Grade                                0%             0%                         0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.88   0.88    0.88    0.88      0.88     0.88
Hourly flow rate (vph)                17      0       2      73        10        0
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                       None                       None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume               59      39                        75
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                    59     39                        75
tC, single (s)                       6.6    6.2                       4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                              3.7     3.3                       2.2
p0 queue free %                      98     100                        99
cM capacity (veh/h)                 899    1033                      1524
Direction, Lane #               WB 1       NB 1    SB 1
Volume Total                       17        75      10
Volume Left                        17         0      10
Volume Right                        0        73       0
cSH                               899      1700    1524
Volume to Capacity               0.02      0.04    0.01
Queue Length 95th (ft)              1         0       1
Control Delay (s)                 9.1       0.0     7.4
Lane LOS                            A                 A
Approach Delay (s)                9.1       0.0     7.4
Approach LOS                        A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        2.3
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 17.2%          ICU Level of Service                  A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




                                                                                                             Synchro 7 - Report
ABB Manufacturing Facility                                                  1: Old Verhoeff Dr. & Old Statesville Rd.
Background (2012) Traffic Conditions                                                                       PM Peak Hour



Movement                            EBL    EBR     NBL     NBT    SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        76    93       96     688    259       53
Sign Control                        Stop                   Free   Free
Grade                                0%                     0%     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.88   0.88    0.88    0.88   0.88     0.88
Hourly flow rate (vph)                86   106     109      782    294       60
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                None   None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              1294   294      355
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  1294   294      355
tC, single (s)                       6.4    6.2      4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               3.5    3.3      2.2
p0 queue free %                      47     86       91
cM capacity (veh/h)                 162    745     1204
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   EB 2    NB 1    NB 2   SB 1     SB 2
Volume Total                          86    106     109     782    294       60
Volume Left                           86      0     109       0      0        0
Volume Right                           0    106       0       0      0       60
cSH                                  162    745    1204    1700   1700     1700
Volume to Capacity                  0.53   0.14    0.09    0.46   0.17     0.04
Queue Length 95th (ft)                67     12       7       0      0        0
Control Delay (s)                   50.4   10.6     8.3     0.0    0.0      0.0
Lane LOS                               F      B       A
Approach Delay (s)                  28.5            1.0            0.0
Approach LOS                           D
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        4.4
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 47.1%       ICU Level of Service              A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




                                                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
ABB Manufacturing Facility                                                            2: Verhoeff Dr. & Statesville Rd.
Background (2012) Traffic Conditions                                                                         PM Peak Hour



Movement                            WBL    WBR      NBT     NBR    SBL      SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        59    132      537     72     158      357
Sign Control                        Stop            Free                    Free
Grade                                0%              0%                      0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.88    0.88    0.88    0.88   0.88     0.88
Hourly flow rate (vph)                67    150      610      82   180       406
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                        None                    None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              1375    610                     692
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  1375    610                     692
tC, single (s)                       6.4     6.2                     4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               3.5     3.3                     2.2
p0 queue free %                      48      70                      80
cM capacity (veh/h)                 128     494                     903
Direction, Lane #               WB 1       WB 2     NB 1    NB 2   SB 1     SB 2
Volume Total                       67        150     610      82    180      406
Volume Left                        67          0       0       0    180        0
Volume Right                        0        150       0      82      0        0
cSH                               128        494    1700    1700    903     1700
Volume to Capacity               0.52       0.30    0.36    0.05   0.20     0.24
Queue Length 95th (ft)             62         32       0       0     18        0
Control Delay (s)                60.3       15.4     0.0     0.0   10.0      0.0
Lane LOS                            F          C                      A
Approach Delay (s)               29.3                 0.0           3.1
Approach LOS                        D
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                         5.5
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  50.3%       ICU Level of Service               A
Analysis Period (min)                                  15




                                                                                                         Synchro 7 - Report
ABB Manufacturing Facility                                                     4: New Verhoeff Dr. & Old Verhoeff Dr.
Background (2012) Traffic Conditions                                                                               PM Peak Hour



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                      140       1       1       0       1       20        1       9      0     16        7     126
Sign Control                               Free                    Free                      Stop                   Stop
Grade                                       0%                      0%                        0%                     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.88   0.88    0.88     0.88   0.88     0.88      0.88   0.88   0.88    0.88    0.88    0.88
Hourly flow rate (vph)              159       1       1        0      1       23         1     10      0      18       8     143
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                None                    None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume               24                       2                       468    344       2    337      333      12
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                   24                        2                      468    344       2    337      333      12
tC, single (s)                       4.1                     4.1                       7.1    6.5    6.2     7.2      6.5     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               2.2                    2.2                        3.5    4.0     3.3    3.6      4.0     3.3
p0 queue free %                       90                    100                       100     98     100     97       98      87
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1591                   1620                       399    521    1083    543      528    1068
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   EB 2   WB 1     WB 2    NB 1     NB 2      SB 1   SB 2
Volume Total                         159      2       0       24      1       10        18    151
Volume Left                          159      0       0        0      1        0        18      0
Volume Right                           0      1       0       23      0        0         0    143
cSH                                 1591   1700   1700     1700     399      521       543   1013
Volume to Capacity                  0.10   0.00    0.00     0.01   0.00     0.02      0.03   0.15
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 8      0       0        0      0        2         3     13
Control Delay (s)                    7.5    0.0     0.0      0.0   14.0     12.0      11.9    9.2
Lane LOS                               A                              B        B         B      A
Approach Delay (s)                   7.4             0.0           12.2                9.5
Approach LOS                                                          B                  A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        8.0
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 29.2%        ICU Level of Service                    A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




                                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
ABB Manufacturing Facility                                                            5: New Verhoeff Dr. & S. Church St.
Background (2012) Traffic Conditions                                                                            PM Peak Hour



Movement                            WBL    WBR      NBT     NBR    SBL      SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        11      6        0     16       5        0
Sign Control                        Stop            Free                    Free
Grade                                0%              0%                      0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.88   0.88     0.88    0.88   0.88     0.88
Hourly flow rate (vph)                12      7        0      18      6        0
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                        None                    None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume               20       9                      18
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                   20       9                     18
tC, single (s)                       6.5    6.2                     4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               3.6     3.3                     2.2
p0 queue free %                      99      99                     100
cM capacity (veh/h)                 965    1073                    1599
Direction, Lane #               WB 1       NB 1     SB 1
Volume Total                       19        18        6
Volume Left                        12         0        6
Volume Right                        7        18        0
cSH                             1001       1700     1599
Volume to Capacity               0.02      0.01     0.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)              1         0        0
Control Delay (s)                 8.7       0.0      7.3
Lane LOS                            A                  A
Approach Delay (s)                8.7       0.0      7.3
Approach LOS                        A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                         4.8
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  14.2%       ICU Level of Service                  A
Analysis Period (min)                                  15




                                                                                                            Synchro 7 - Report
    APPENDIX F

ABB TRAFFIC PROJECTIONS
Employee Plan - US Cable Business

Resource Timing as per Original CIMT but adjusted for timing
delay

                                                                       Num         Num
                                                                                                          10- 11-                                         10- 11-
                                                                                         6-7 7-8 8-9 9-10 11 12 12-1 1-2 2-3 3-4 4-5 5-6 6-7 7-8 8-9 9-10 11 12 12-1 1-2 2-3 3-4 4-5 5-6
(Number of Employees)                                                 Salaried   Hourly AM    AM AM AM AM AM PM PM PM PM PM PM PM PM PM PM PM PM AM AM AM AM AM AM
Factory Manager                                                          1                  1                      1    1               1
Shift Supervisors                                                        4                      1   1              1    1       1   1                             1 1
Stranding and Shielding:
   Production Area Manager                                               2                       2                     2    2                  2
   Lead Technical Operator                                                          6            2    2                              2    2                             2    2
   Operator*                                                                       21            7    7                              7    7                             7    7
Tower Extrusion:
   Production Area Manager                                               2                       2                     2    2                  2
   Lead Technical Operator                                                          6            2    2                              2    2                             2    2
   Operator*                                                                       18            6    6                              6    6                             6    6
Drum Twister and Jacketing:
   Production Area Manager                                               1                       1                     1    1                  1
   Lead Technical Operator                                                          3            1    1                              1    1                             1    1
   Operator*                                                                        9            3    3                              3    3                             3    3
Final Testing:
   Production Area Manager                                               1                       1                     1    1                  1
   Lead Technical Operator                                                          3            1    1                              1    1                             1    1
   Operator*                                                                        6            2    2                              2    2                             2    2
   Packing                                                                          2            2                     2    2                  2
Site Maintenance:
   Maintenance Manager                                                   1                       1                     1    1                  1
   Electricians                                                                     2            2                                             2
   Process Control / Systems                                             1                       1                     1    1                  1
   Mechanics                                                                        2            2                                             2
   Shift Maintenance/Electrician (1 per shift)                                      3            1    1                              1    1                             1    1
Project Management:
   Manager for Project Orders                                            1                       1                     1    1                  1
   Project Managers for Project Orders                                   2                       2                     2    2                  2
   Project Assistant                                                     1                       1                     1    1                  1
   Site / Installation Engineer                                          1                       1                     1    1                  1
Engineering:
   Engineering Manager                                                   1                       1                     1    1                  1
   Process and OpEx Engineers                                            5                       5                     5    5                  5
   Design Engineering                                                    4                       4                     4    4                  4
   Materials Lab Techs                                                              3            3                     3    3                  3
   Materials Test Engineer                                               1                       1                     1    1                  1
Supply Chain Management:
   SCM Manager                                                           1                       1                     1    1                  1
   Shipping/Receiving Supervisor                                         1                       1                     1    1                  1
   Shipping/Receiving Operators                                                     2            2                     2    2                  2
   Planning / Scheduling / Production Prep                               2                       2                     2    2                  2
   Buyer                                                                 2                       2                     2    2                  2
   Logistics / Material Movement Operators                                          2            2                     2    2                  2
Quality and EHS:
   Quality & EHS Manager                                                 1                       1                     1    1                  1
   Quality Technical Engineer                                            1                       1                     1    1                  1

Non Production:
General Manager                                                          1                       1                     1    1                  1
Exec admin                                                               1                       1                     1    1                  1
   Admin support                                                                    2            2                     2    2                  2
Sales & Marketing:
   Sales & Marketing Manager                                             1                       1                     1    1                  1
   Sales                                                                 1                       1                     1    1                  1
   Proposals                                                             2                       2                     2    2                  2
   Marketing                                                             1                       1                     1    1                  1
Planning & Controlling:
   Controller                                                            1                       1                     1    1                  1
   Cost Accountant                                                       1                       1                     1    1                  1
   Project Controller                                                    1                       1                     1    1                  1
Other Functional Support Areas:
   Training & Development                                                1                       1                     1    1                  1
   Human Resources                                                       1                       1                     1    1                  1
   Business Process Mgr
   Construction Mgr
   Director of Technology                                                1                        1                     1    1                  1
                                            Total Salaried / Hourly     50         90        1   86   26   0   0   0   58   58   0   26   26   61   0   0   0   0   0   26   26   0   0   0   0   0   394
                                                 Total Employees:            140


                                                                                                      1    2   2   2   1
Notes:                                                                                                1    2   1
1) * = Shift operators in pool to flex to constraining operation by shift                             1    2   1
2)  Assumption: All employees are new to ABB                                                                           1    2    2   2    1
                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                   2                      2
                                                                                             0   0    3    6   4   6   2    2    2   2    3    0    0   0   0   0   0   0    0    0   0   0   0   0   30

                                                                                             1   86   29   6   4   6   60   60   2   28   29   61   0   0   0   0   0   26   26   0   0   0   0   0   424
          APPENDIX G

CAPACITY ANALYSIS & QUEUING REPORTS
 COMBINED (2012) TRAFFIC CONDITIONS
ABB Manufacturing Facility                                                     1: Old Verhoeff Dr. & Old Statesville Rd.
Combined (2012) Traffic Conditions                                                                            AM Peak Hour



Movement                            EBL    EBR     NBL     NBT       SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        36   234      149     311       598       93
Sign Control                        Stop                   Free      Free
Grade                                0%                     0%        0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.88   0.88    0.88    0.88      0.88     0.88
Hourly flow rate (vph)                41    266     169     353       680      106
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                None     None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              1372   680      785
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  1372   680      785
tC, single (s)                       6.4   6.2      4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                              3.5    3.3      2.2
p0 queue free %                      68     41       80
cM capacity (veh/h)                 127    451      829
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   EB 2    NB 1    NB 2      SB 1     SB 2
Volume Total                          41    266     169     353       680      106
Volume Left                           41      0     169       0         0        0
Volume Right                           0    266       0       0         0      106
cSH                                  127    451     829    1700      1700     1700
Volume to Capacity                  0.32   0.59    0.20    0.21      0.40     0.06
Queue Length 95th (ft)                32     93      19       0         0        0
Control Delay (s)                   46.1   23.8    10.5     0.0       0.0      0.0
Lane LOS                               E      C       B
Approach Delay (s)                  26.8            3.4               0.0
Approach LOS                           D
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        6.2
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 53.1%          ICU Level of Service              A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




                                                                                                          Synchro 7 - Report
ABB Manufacturing Facility                                                               2: Verhoeff Dr. & Statesville Rd.
Combined (2012) Traffic Conditions                                                                              AM Peak Hour



Movement                            WBL    WBR      NBT     NBR       SBL      SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        53    106      275      82       250      697
Sign Control                        Stop            Free                       Free
Grade                                0%              0%                         0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.88    0.88    0.88    0.88      0.88     0.88
Hourly flow rate (vph)                60     120     312      93       284      792
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                        None                       None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              1673    312                        406
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  1673    312                        406
tC, single (s)                       6.4    6.2                        4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               3.5    3.3                        2.2
p0 queue free %                       24     83                         75
cM capacity (veh/h)                   79    728                       1153
Direction, Lane #               WB 1       WB 2     NB 1    NB 2      SB 1     SB 2
Volume Total                       60        120     312      93       284      792
Volume Left                        60          0       0       0       284        0
Volume Right                        0        120       0      93         0        0
cSH                                79        728    1700    1700      1153     1700
Volume to Capacity               0.76       0.17    0.18    0.05      0.25     0.47
Queue Length 95th (ft)             93         15       0       0        24        0
Control Delay (s)               132.1       10.9     0.0     0.0       9.1      0.0
Lane LOS                            F          B                         A
Approach Delay (s)               51.3                 0.0              2.4
Approach LOS                        F
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                         7.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  46.7%          ICU Level of Service               A
Analysis Period (min)                                  15




                                                                                                            Synchro 7 - Report
ABB Manufacturing Facility                                                       4: New Verhoeff Dr. & Old Verhoeff Dr.
Combined (2012) Traffic Conditions                                                                                  AM Peak Hour



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL       WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL    SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                      182      32      19       0        15       84        1       4     0     72      32     138
Sign Control                               Free                      Free                      Stop                 Stop
Grade                                       0%                        0%                        0%                   0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.88   0.88    0.88     0.88     0.88     0.88      0.88   0.88   0.88   0.88   0.88    0.88
Hourly flow rate (vph)               207     36      22        0       17       95         1      5      0     82     36     157
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                None                     None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              112                      58                         653    573     47    517     536      65
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  112                       58                        653    573      47   517     536       65
tC, single (s)                      4.1                      4.1                        7.1    6.5     6.2   7.2     6.5      6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               2.2                    2.2                         3.5    4.0     3.3   3.6     4.0     3.3
p0 queue free %                       86                    100                         100     99     100    80      91      84
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1477                   1546                         266    369    1022   406     388     999
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   EB 2   WB 1     WB 2      NB 1    NB 2       SB 1   SB 2
Volume Total                         207     58       0      112        1       5         82    193
Volume Left                          207      0       0        0        1       0         82      0
Volume Right                           0     22       0       95        0       0          0    157
cSH                                 1477   1700   1700     1700       266     369        406    770
Volume to Capacity                  0.14   0.03    0.00     0.07     0.00    0.01       0.20   0.25
Queue Length 95th (ft)                12      0       0        0        0       1         19     25
Control Delay (s)                    7.8    0.0     0.0      0.0     18.6    14.9       16.1   11.2
Lane LOS                               A                                C       B          C      B
Approach Delay (s)                   6.1             0.0             15.6               12.7
Approach LOS                                                            C                  B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        7.9
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 34.1%          ICU Level of Service                   A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




                                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
ABB Manufacturing Facility                                                              5: New Verhoeff Dr. & S. Church St.
Combined (2012) Traffic Conditions                                                                               AM Peak Hour



Movement                            WBL    WBR     NBT     NBR       SBL      SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                       104     0        2     90          9        0
Sign Control                        Stop           Free                       Free
Grade                                0%             0%                         0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.88   0.88    0.88    0.88      0.88     0.88
Hourly flow rate (vph)               118      0       2     102        10        0
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                       None                       None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume               74      53                       105
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                    74     53                       105
tC, single (s)                       6.5    6.2                       4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                              3.6     3.3                       2.2
p0 queue free %                      87     100                        99
cM capacity (veh/h)                 914    1014                      1487
Direction, Lane #               WB 1       NB 1    SB 1
Volume Total                      118       105      10
Volume Left                       118         0      10
Volume Right                        0       102       0
cSH                               914      1700    1487
Volume to Capacity               0.13      0.06    0.01
Queue Length 95th (ft)             11         0       1
Control Delay (s)                 9.5       0.0     7.4
Lane LOS                            A                 A
Approach Delay (s)                9.5       0.0     7.4
Approach LOS                        A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        5.2
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 19.6%          ICU Level of Service                  A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




                                                                                                             Synchro 7 - Report
ABB Manufacturing Facility
Combined (2012) Traffic Conditions                                      AM Peak Hour

Intersection: 1: Old Verhoeff Dr. & Old Statesville Rd.
Movement                EB     EB    NB      SB   SB
Directions Served        L      R     L       T    R
Maximum Queue (ft)      68    128    91       7   31
Average Queue (ft)      21     57    43       0    2
95th Queue (ft)         52    102    77       4   16
Link Distance (ft)            608          1373
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)   200          200          200
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Intersection: 2: Verhoeff Dr. & Statesville Rd.
Movement                WB     WB    NB     SB
Directions Served         L      R    R      L
Maximum Queue (ft)       93     84   13     87
Average Queue (ft)       35     37    1     38
95th Queue (ft)          72     63    7     74
Link Distance (ft)            2292
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)   175          200   150
Storage Blk Time (%)                         0
Queuing Penalty (veh)                        0

Intersection: 4: New Verhoeff Dr. & Old Verhoeff Dr.
Movement                EB     EB    WB     NB    NB      SB     SB
Directions Served        L     TR     TR     L     TR      L     TR
Maximum Queue (ft)      68      5     18     6     30     73     73
Average Queue (ft)      19      0      1     0      4     29     28
95th Queue (ft)         55      5      8     6     20     57     52
Link Distance (ft)            986    780          268           608
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)   200                150            200
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)




                                                                      SimTraffic Report
ABB Manufacturing Facility
Combined (2012) Traffic Conditions                    AM Peak Hour

Intersection: 5: New Verhoeff Dr. & S. Church St.
Movement                      WB    NB     SB
Directions Served              LR    TR    LT
Maximum Queue (ft)             72     3    18
Average Queue (ft)             31     0     1
95th Queue (ft)                53     3    10
Link Distance (ft)            535   443   271
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Network Summary
Network wide Queuing Penalty: 0




                                                    SimTraffic Report
ABB Manufacturing Facility                                                  1: Old Verhoeff Dr. & Old Statesville Rd.
Combined (2012) Traffic Conditions                                                                         PM Peak Hour



Movement                            EBL    EBR     NBL     NBT    SBT      SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        92   119      107     688    259       60
Sign Control                        Stop                   Free   Free
Grade                                0%                     0%     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.88   0.88    0.88    0.88   0.88     0.88
Hourly flow rate (vph)               105   135     122      782    294       68
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                                None   None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              1319   294      362
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  1319   294      362
tC, single (s)                       6.4    6.2      4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               3.5    3.3      2.2
p0 queue free %                      32     82       90
cM capacity (veh/h)                 154    745     1196
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   EB 2    NB 1    NB 2   SB 1     SB 2
Volume Total                         105    135     122     782    294       68
Volume Left                          105      0     122       0      0        0
Volume Right                           0    135       0       0      0       68
cSH                                  154    745    1196    1700   1700     1700
Volume to Capacity                  0.68   0.18    0.10    0.46   0.17     0.04
Queue Length 95th (ft)                97     16       8       0      0        0
Control Delay (s)                   67.3   10.9     8.4     0.0    0.0      0.0
Lane LOS                               F      B       A
Approach Delay (s)                  35.5            1.1            0.0
Approach LOS                           E
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        6.3
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 48.0%       ICU Level of Service              A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




                                                                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
ABB Manufacturing Facility                                                            2: Verhoeff Dr. & Statesville Rd.
Combined (2012) Traffic Conditions                                                                           PM Peak Hour



Movement                            WBL    WBR      NBT     NBR    SBL      SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        59    153      537     72     167      357
Sign Control                        Stop            Free                    Free
Grade                                0%              0%                      0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.88    0.88    0.88    0.88   0.88     0.88
Hourly flow rate (vph)                67    174      610      82   190       406
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                        None                    None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume              1395    610                     692
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                  1395    610                     692
tC, single (s)                       6.4     6.2                     4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               3.5     3.3                     2.2
p0 queue free %                      45      65                      79
cM capacity (veh/h)                 123     494                     903
Direction, Lane #               WB 1       WB 2     NB 1    NB 2   SB 1     SB 2
Volume Total                       67        174     610      82    190      406
Volume Left                        67          0       0       0    190        0
Volume Right                        0        174       0      82      0        0
cSH                               123        494    1700    1700    903     1700
Volume to Capacity               0.55       0.35    0.36    0.05   0.21     0.24
Queue Length 95th (ft)             65         39       0       0     20        0
Control Delay (s)                64.8       16.2     0.0     0.0   10.0      0.0
Lane LOS                            F          C                      B
Approach Delay (s)               29.7                 0.0           3.2
Approach LOS                        D
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                         5.9
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  50.8%       ICU Level of Service               A
Analysis Period (min)                                  15




                                                                                                         Synchro 7 - Report
ABB Manufacturing Facility                                                     4: New Verhoeff Dr. & Old Verhoeff Dr.
Combined (2012) Traffic Conditions                                                                                 PM Peak Hour



Movement                            EBL    EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT     WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                      140      10       1       0      22       62        1       9      0     34        7     126
Sign Control                               Free                    Free                      Stop                   Stop
Grade                                       0%                      0%                        0%                     0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.88   0.88    0.88     0.88   0.88     0.88      0.88   0.88   0.88    0.88    0.88    0.88
Hourly flow rate (vph)              159      11       1        0     25       70         1     10      0      39       8     143
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                None                    None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume               95                      12                       502    426      12    395      391      60
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                   95                      12                       502    426     12     395      391      60
tC, single (s)                       4.1                     4.1                      7.1     6.5    6.2     7.2      6.5     6.2
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               2.2                    2.2                        3.5    4.0     3.3    3.6      4.0     3.3
p0 queue free %                       89                    100                       100     98     100     92       98      86
cM capacity (veh/h)                 1498                   1606                       373    465    1069    499      487    1005
Direction, Lane #                   EB 1   EB 2   WB 1     WB 2    NB 1     NB 2      SB 1   SB 2
Volume Total                         159     12       0       95      1       10        39    151
Volume Left                          159      0       0        0      1        0        39      0
Volume Right                           0      1       0       70      0        0         0    143
cSH                                 1498   1700   1700     1700     373      465       499    952
Volume to Capacity                  0.11   0.01    0.00     0.06   0.00     0.02      0.08   0.16
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 9      0       0        0      0        2         6     14
Control Delay (s)                    7.7    0.0     0.0      0.0   14.7     12.9      12.8    9.5
Lane LOS                               A                              B        B         B      A
Approach Delay (s)                   7.1             0.0           13.1               10.2
Approach LOS                                                          B                  B
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                        7.1
Intersection Capacity Utilization                 29.6%        ICU Level of Service                    A
Analysis Period (min)                                 15




                                                                                                               Synchro 7 - Report
ABB Manufacturing Facility                                                            5: New Verhoeff Dr. & S. Church St.
Combined (2012) Traffic Conditions                                                                              PM Peak Hour



Movement                            WBL    WBR      NBT     NBR    SBL      SBT
Lane Configurations
Volume (veh/h)                        38      6        0     79       5        0
Sign Control                        Stop            Free                    Free
Grade                                0%              0%                      0%
Peak Hour Factor                    0.88   0.88     0.88    0.88   0.88     0.88
Hourly flow rate (vph)                43      7        0      90      6        0
Pedestrians
Lane Width (ft)
Walking Speed (ft/s)
Percent Blockage
Right turn flare (veh)
Median type                                        None                    None
Median storage veh)
Upstream signal (ft)
pX, platoon unblocked
vC, conflicting volume               56      45                      90
vC1, stage 1 conf vol
vC2, stage 2 conf vol
vCu, unblocked vol                   56     45                      90
tC, single (s)                       6.5    6.2                     4.1
tC, 2 stage (s)
tF (s)                               3.6     3.3                     2.2
p0 queue free %                      95      99                     100
cM capacity (veh/h)                 935    1025                    1505
Direction, Lane #               WB 1       NB 1     SB 1
Volume Total                       50        90        6
Volume Left                        43         0        6
Volume Right                        7        90        0
cSH                               947      1700     1505
Volume to Capacity               0.05      0.05     0.00
Queue Length 95th (ft)              4         0        0
Control Delay (s)                 9.0       0.0      7.4
Lane LOS                            A                  A
Approach Delay (s)                9.0       0.0      7.4
Approach LOS                        A
Intersection Summary
Average Delay                                         3.4
Intersection Capacity Utilization                  14.9%       ICU Level of Service                  A
Analysis Period (min)                                  15




                                                                                                            Synchro 7 - Report
ABB Manufacturing Facility
Combined (2012) Traffic Conditions                                PM Peak Hour

Intersection: 1: Old Verhoeff Dr. & Old Statesville Rd.
Movement                 EB    EB    NB     SB
Directions Served         L     R     L      R
Maximum Queue (ft)      105    66    55     11
Average Queue (ft)       43    27    21      1
95th Queue (ft)          83    47    48      6
Link Distance (ft)            608
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)   200          200   200
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Intersection: 2: Verhoeff Dr. & Statesville Rd.
Movement                WB     WB    NB     SB
Directions Served         L      R    R      L
Maximum Queue (ft)       89    107   14     90
Average Queue (ft)       34     49    1     40
95th Queue (ft)          68     85    8     73
Link Distance (ft)            2292
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)   175          200   150
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Intersection: 4: New Verhoeff Dr. & Old Verhoeff Dr.
Movement                EB    WB     NB     NB    SB       SB
Directions Served        L     TR     L     TR     L       TR
Maximum Queue (ft)      64     10    12     33    54       56
Average Queue (ft)      12      0     0      8    18       24
95th Queue (ft)         42      5     6     30    43       41
Link Distance (ft)            780          268            608
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)   200          150          200
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)




                                                                SimTraffic Report
ABB Manufacturing Facility
Combined (2012) Traffic Conditions                    PM Peak Hour

Intersection: 5: New Verhoeff Dr. & S. Church St.
Movement                      WB     SB
Directions Served              LR    LT
Maximum Queue (ft)             51    12
Average Queue (ft)             19     1
95th Queue (ft)                42     8
Link Distance (ft)            535   271
Upstream Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)
Storage Bay Dist (ft)
Storage Blk Time (%)
Queuing Penalty (veh)

Network Summary
Network wide Queuing Penalty: 0




                                                    SimTraffic Report
