DISTRICT-WIDE
DISTRICT-
TRAFFIC OPERATIONAL STUDIES




                                                            FPID No.
                                                                 No 198346-1-32-04
                                                                   Contract No. 12126




                            Contact: Jay H.L. Calhoun, PE
                               Phone: (813) 831
                                             831-8870
                                                 8870
                                Cell: (813) 363-0437
                             Email: jcalhoun@gfnet.com
801 North Broadway Avenue                                     4350 West Cypress Street, Suite 340
Bartow, Florida 33830             May 19, 2011                              Tampa, Florida 33607
DISTRICT-WIDE
DISTRICT-
TRAFFIC OPERATIONAL STUDIES




                              LETTER OF RESPONSE
                                                           Florida Department of Transportation
                                                                       District One
                                                          District Wide Traffic Operational Studies

                                      June 23, 2011
                                      Mrs. Elizabeth F. Leopold
                                      Florida Department of Transportation - District One
                                      District Consultant Contracts Administrator
                                      801 N. Broadway Avenue
                                      Bartow, Florida 33830
                                      RE:     District Wide Traffic Operational Studies
                                              Contract No. 12126; FPID No. 198346 1 32 04
                                      Dear Ms. Leopold:
   Adams Traffic, Inc.
                                      Florida Department of Transportation (FDOT) District One understands the
   Traffic Data Collection Services
                                      importance of being responsive to the public's concerns with traffic safety and
                                      operations. They look to their Traffic Operations Consultant to provide a quick
RESPONSIBLE OFFICE
                                      turnaround of traffic studies in a quality manner. The Gannett Fleming, Inc.
Gannett Fleming, Inc.                 (Gannett Fleming) Team is pleased to submit this letter of response for the
4350 West Cypress Street
Suite 340                             FDOT District One District Wide Traffic Operational Studies contract. Gannett
Tampa, Florida 33607                  Fleming has organized a team of experienced transportation engineers, field
                                      technicians, and data collection professionals to successfully perform all
CONTACT PERSON
                                      assignments associated with this contract. Our firm has demonstrated its
Jay H.L. Calhoun, PE                  commitment to the needs of the FDOT on the current District One District Wide
Phone: (813) 831-8870
Cell:    (813) 363-0437               Traffic Operational Studies contract. We would like the opportunity to continue
Email: jcalhoun@gfnet.com             to provide superior support, and continue to utilize our skills and expertise on
                                      this project. The principal members of Gannett Fleming have been working
THE GANNETT                FLEMING
TEAM                                  together on similar projects for the past 12 years at the same company. Our
                                      Team brings stability and reliability to this project.
Gannett Fleming ­ Prime
Consultant                            Gannett Fleming has been providing its clients with a variety of traffic
Bayside ­ Data Collection
FTE ­ Data Collection                 engineering and transportation planning services throughout Florida for 25
Adams Traffic ­Data Collection        years. The Tampa office contains the majority of the traffic engineering staff,
PREQUALIFICATION
                                      with 29 associates. Our Transportation Engineers have experience in providing
                                      traffic engineering studies and design; transportation planning studies; signal
                     Work Groups      system design, re-timing and implementation; and construction engineering and
     Firm
                     6.1        6.2   inspection (CEI) of intelligent transportation systems (ITSs) and signal systems.
Gannett Fleming       X          X
Bayside               X          X    Having performed similar work in Districts One, Three, Six, and Seven, as well
FTE                   X          X    as numerous other traffic studies contracts, we understand the importance of
                      X
Adams Traffic                         being responsive to task assignments; being knowledgeable of the Manual on
KEY PERSONNEL
                                      Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD) and Manual of Uniform Traffic
                                      Studies (MUTS) requirements; having a skilled staff and available resources;
See Organizational Chart              emphasizing cost-effective and feasible solutions to traffic operations issues;
BENEFITS OF SELECTING                 providing an experienced, proactive project manager; maintaining internal and
THE GANNETT FLEMING                   external coordination; and delivering quality work products.            We will
TEAM                                  demonstrate a strong commitment to this philosophy, beginning with an
¾ Proven Project Manager              organizational structure that is well-suited to provide these services.
¾ Knowledge of the District's
  Traffic Operations Program          The Gannett Fleming Team has been set up with two Study Teams to complete
¾ Commitment to Quality and           multiple, concurrent assignments. The Teams will be led by our proposed
  Cost-effective Solutions
¾ Availability of Local Team
  Resources




                                                                             1
                                                                                    Adams Traffic, Inc.
                                                                                    Traffic Data Collection Services


Project Manager, Vicki Castro, PE, PTOE, who is the Project Manager for the existing traffic operations
studies contract. Ms. Castro is looking forward to continuing to handle this fast-paced project and
building on the relationships already established with District One. She has extensive experience
conducting traffic operations studies and administering District Wide studies contracts.
Ms. Castro understands the importance of considering the "big picture" for a study site, obtaining count
data in a timely manner, conducting a thorough field review, obtaining reliable crash data, and
maintaining on-going communication with the District's Project Manager.
THE GANNETT FLEMING TEAM
The following describes the make-up of our Team and the roles each firm will play in providing the
required traffic operational studies.
Gannett Fleming will serve as the prime consultant for this project. Our primary client is the FDOT and
our Tampa Office has been successfully serving District One since 1997. Gannett Fleming has extensive
traffic operations experience and we are extremely familiar with task work order type contracts and the
short timeframes that are often associated with individual task work orders. We have completed over 250
work orders as part of our current District One District Wide Traffic Operations contract. Gannett
Fleming has successfully performed over a dozen other on-call FDOT contracts with similar scopes at
hundreds of locations throughout Florida. Furthermore, our specialty disciplines of signal systems, ITS,
geographic information systems (GIS), and systems integration offer added benefits to the FDOT in
performing traffic engineering studies as we are able to consider innovative technology-driven solutions
that enhance the safety and mobility of the traveling public.
The Gannett Fleming Team includes the following highly-qualified subconsultants, all of which will
provide data collection support. Our subconsultants have been carefully selected based on the FDOT's
needs and our currently established working relationships.
Bayside Engineering, Inc. (Bayside) will provide data collection support. Headquartered in Tampa,
Bayside offers civil engineering, transportation, traffic engineering and planning, water resources
services, permitting, surveying and mapping, construction engineering and inspection, geographic
information systems (GIS), and information technology (IT) services throughout Florida. Bayside is an
FDOT-certified Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE).
Florida Transportation Engineering, Inc. (FTE) will provide data collection support. FTE has been
involved in Data Collection and Statistics contracts in every FDOT District and the Central Office as a
prime or a sub consultant. FTE has been involved with FDOT District One as a prime consultant for the
past 21 years. FTE is an FDOT-certified DBE, located in Punta Gorda.
Adams Traffic, Inc. (Adams Traffic) will provide data collection services. Adams Traffic, a FDOT-
certified DBE, has served as the data collection subconsultant on several District One District Wide
contracts, including Access Management, Traffic Operations Studies, Safety Studies, and Signal System
Retiming.
Gannett Fleming fully supports the FDOT's DBE program and commits to using DBE firms for at least
15 percent of this project.
AWARENESS OF/APPROACH TO PROJECT ISSUES
Understanding of the Scope of Services
Over the years, the State of Florida, and especially areas within District One, has seen a tremendous
increase in development which in turn increases the volume of traffic along the already congested
roadways. As a result, citizen and local government requests for improvements along these roadways
continue to increase. Each request must be evaluated according to the methods adopted by the FDOT.
Many of the task assignments will be data collection only, such as turning movement counts, left-turn
delay studies, or spot speed studies, that the District will use to evaluate the public request. Other tasks,




                                                     2
                                                                                    Adams Traffic, Inc.
                                                                                    Traffic Data Collection Services


such as a signal warrant analysis, will involve the Gannett Fleming Team collecting all the data, analyzing
it, and recommending improvements.
From having used it for assignments under the current District One Traffic Operations contract, the
Gannett Fleming Team is extremely familiar with the work-order type Scope of Services provided for this
contract. Rather than reiterate the entire Scope of Services, Gannett Fleming will include in this letter of
response things that we have found through project experience that must be considered during the conduct
of the project and those items that make our Team unique.
Study Type I ­ Signal Warrant Analysis
Study Type I covers Tasks 1 to 7, including Qualitative Assessment, 24-Hour Traffic Counts, 8-Hour
Turning Movement Counts, Field Inventory, Intersection Delay Analysis, Crash Analysis, and Warrant
Analysis and Recommendations. This study type is prepared for an intersection to determine whether or
not a traffic signal is warranted. Along with the signal warrant analysis, this study type also evaluates the
potential for capacity, operational, and safety improvements such as the need for right- and left-turn lanes.
Gannett Fleming understands that the purpose of traffic control devices is to provide for the safe and
orderly movement of all traffic. The MUTCD states, "To be effective, a Traffic Control Device should
meet five basic requirements: fulfill a need, command attention, convey a clear meaning, command
respect and provide adequate time for proper response." In order to determine that the installation of a
traffic control device meets the five basic requirements, "warrants" or sets of criteria have been
developed. These criteria have been developed recognizing that the most effective traffic control device
is that which is the least restrictive while accomplishing the intended purpose. The MUTCD indicates
that "Traffic control signals should not be installed unless one or more of the signal warrants in the
MUTCD are met. Information should be obtained by means of engineering studies and compared with
the requirements." Although one or more warrants may be met at a particular intersection, Gannett
Fleming realizes that installing a traffic signal may not be the best solution. Alternative access control
based on the collected data and sound engineering judgment should be considered prior to recommending
signal installation because this traffic control device will increase total intersection vehicular delay and
the frequency of certain types of crashes, such as rear-ends.
Before such a recommendation is finalized, the Gannett Fleming Team will consider the following factors
and their applicability to the study location:
·   Assess the feasibility of alternative improvements (i.e., geometric, regulatory ­ signs, markings and
    lane use/direction changes, maintenance activities) that could initially be considered for remediation
    of operational and safety conflicts.
·   Carefully evaluate the percentage of right-turning traffic from side streets ­ unless the movement is
    affected by sight distance limitations, right turns are generally not critical for signal control.
·   Investigate the impact of future land development in the area of the proposed signal installation.
·   Review the impact of new signal control on existing mainline progression with the maintaining
    jurisdiction.
Regarding the removal of traffic signal control, many of the above factors will also apply in evaluating
such an action, but other issues that may be considered include a review of the signalized intersection's
crash history to help determine why it was originally installed (i.e., volumes or crashes), and discussions
with appropriate local and state officials in gaining insight to operational problems at an intersection to
assess the perceived or real impact of the signal removal.
The Gannett Fleming Team will send a qualified Professional Engineer to assess the condition of the
intersection. This level of experience and professional judgment at the start of the analysis eliminates
problems and questions later on.




                                                     3
                                                                                    Adams Traffic, Inc.
                                                                                   Traffic Data Collection Services


When conducting the field inventory, Gannett Fleming is careful to include all elements that may later
impact the design effort. Underground and overhead utilities as well as drainage structures and ditches
are noted during the field review.
Study Type II ­ Composite Study
Study Type II covers various tasks, including traffic counts, an intersection inventory, a crash analysis, a
qualitative assessment, intersection analysis, corridor review, report preparation, obtaining crash data,
spot speed studies, and miscellaneous studies. These study type sub-tasks are provided so that various
studies can be developed to address the many traffic issues that may exist throughout the District. By
selecting a set of appropriate tasks, a study can be developed to address a particular traffic problem at an
intersection or corridor.
The Gannett Fleming Team understands that the validity of any work performed during this project relies
upon the accuracy of the data upon which it is based. Therefore, our Team includes Adams Traffic,
Bayside, and FTE to provide count data. All these firms have worked with Gannett Fleming on previous
contracts. Each collects data according to the methodology included in the MUTS, using a well-
established resource as the base. The key to their success is, however, the careful quality control process
to which the data are subjected. All data are reviewed for completeness, accuracy, and logic. Our
partnership with these three firms enables the Gannett Fleming Team to conduct multiple studies at the
same time.
The Gannett Fleming Team has extensive
experience in obtaining crash records from local
jurisdictions and law enforcement agencies.
The Gannett Fleming Team has a listing of the
local agencies and their contacts within District
One and currently uses this information on our
existing contract.
As part of the current contract, Gannett Fleming
created an electronic version of the spot speed
data collection form. The form, which is
included as an example assignment, is easier to
read than the field notes that were previously
submitted. In addition, transferring the data
from the field notes to the spreadsheet enables
the Project Manager an additional opportunity
to review the data. Gannett Fleming also
created separate left-turn delay forms for each
left-turn treatment that could be analyzed, i.e.,
no left-turn phase, protected/permissive, and
protected only. Having separate forms has
reduced the possibility for error by the field
technician by eliminating unnecessary columns.
This Scope of Services has a new task, 12-hour turning movement counts, which will potentially
eliminate the need for 24-hour approach counts at intersections. The Gannett Fleming Team recognizes
that 12-hour continuous counts will require a creative method of obtaining the data. One method we are
considering is to send out two teams of data collectors, in 6-hour shifts. Another innovative means of
obtaining the data is to use MoiVision's video traffic data collection system to automatically record the
turning movement counts. Gannett Fleming will research the possibility of MoiVision developing an
algorithm to count right turns on red, which will allow their technologies to be used on signalized
intersections.




                                                     4
                                                                                    Adams Traffic, Inc.
                                                                                   Traffic Data Collection Services


Approach to the Project
The Gannett Fleming Team has performed similar District Wide task work order contracts, including, but
not limited to:
·   District One District Wide Traffic Studies (Gannett Fleming, Bayside, and Adams Traffic)
·   District Seven District Wide Traffic Safety Studies/Minor Design (Gannett Fleming, Bayside, and
    Adams Traffic; 2 contracts)
·   District Seven District Wide Access Management Support ­ (Gannett Fleming and Adams Traffic; 2
    contracts)
·   District Six District Wide Safety/Traffic Operations (Gannett Fleming; 5 contracts ­ 3 as prime and 2
    as a subconsultant; FTE)
·   District Three District Wide Traffic Operations Studies/Design ­ (Gannett Fleming; 2 contracts)
·   District Five District Wide Traffic Operations Studies (Gannett Fleming; as a subconsultant, 2
    contracts)
·   District Seven District Wide Signal Retiming (Gannett Fleming; 2 contracts)
·   District One General Engineering Consultant (Bayside, as a subconsultant)
·   District One Miscellaneous Safety Studies (FTE)
·   District One District Wide Resurfacing (FTE)
·   District One District Wide Minor Design (FTE; Bayside ­ as a subconsultant)
·   District One District Wide CEI (FTE - 2 contracts)
·   District One District Wide Statistics - Data Collection and Analysis (FTE; 5 contracts)
·   District Four District Wide Statistics - Data Collection and Analysis (FTE; 2 contracts)
·   District Six District Wide Statistics-Data Collection and Analysis (FTE; 4 contracts)
·   District Six District Wide Traffic Operations Miscellaneous Minor Design (FTE)
·   District One District Wide Access Management (Adams Traffic)
·   District One Corridor/Subarea/Special Studies (Adams Traffic)
·   District One District Wide Traffic Production and Analysis (Adams Traffic)
·   District One Statistics for Traffic Counts (Adams Traffic)
This expansive experience provides the FDOT with the confidence in our Team's ability to tackle any
assignment while meeting the FDOT's schedules.
In order to better manage the multiple concurrent assignments for our current District Wide Traffic
Studies contract, especially during the winter peak season, Gannett Fleming developed a spreadsheet to
track each assignment. Most task work orders involve several composite tasks. The spreadsheet
identifies who is responsible for each task and when it is due. All team members are provided the
spreadsheet which has improved coordination and timeliness of submittals.
Our approach to a typical Type I - Signal Warrant Analysis is:
·   Gannett Fleming's Project Manager discusses the assignment with the FDOT Project Manager to
    ensure we have all the available background information for the study, including previous studies, the
    source of study request, meeting minutes, plans, etc. that may be of value in providing a thorough task
    product. If applicable, we will contact the local agencies for additional background information.
    However, we also realize that sometimes the FDOT wants a fresh set of eyes looking at an
    intersection and we will not be provided any background information that could cloud our evaluation.
    We also verify the hours for the traffic counts, the need for any special counts (trucks, u-turns, etc.)
    and we will discuss the schedule to determine if the deliverable is needed on a faster track than a
    typical assignment.
·   The Gannett Fleming Project Manager assigns the Team to conduct the study and schedules the data
    collection tasks immediately.
·   Gannett Fleming utilizes existing aerials to develop the preliminary condition diagrams. These are
    used during the field inventory task as a base condition to maximize our efficiency. The diagrams are
    updated accordingly if intersection modifications have occurred.




                                                    5
                                                                                    Adams Traffic, Inc.
                                                                                   Traffic Data Collection Services


·   The crash diagrams are plotted prior to the engineer's qualitative assessment task. This provides the
    engineer with insight into any crash patterns that may be occurring that need to be investigated during
    the qualitative assessment task.
·   Once the data collection and analysis tasks are completed, the recommendations are developed.
Best or Value Added
Gannett Fleming utilizes many innovative concepts in all types of work. To begin with, each member
stays abreast of any new concepts, technologies, and strategies by attending local and national
conferences and reviewing technical journals within their field of expertise. Gannett Fleming also tries to
obtain recent aerial photographs of the study location to aid in the development of base drawings.
Furthermore, the specialty discipline of GIS provided by our Team offers added benefits to the FDOT in
utilizing buffers, which could be created interactively for a roadway segment, intersection or particular
radius, to retrieve traffic and crash data, as well as RIC data.
PROPOSED STAFFING
To continue our excellent working relationship with District One, Gannett Fleming has assembled a
project team with proven experience in all the skills required to perform the assignments associated with
this contract. Key members of the Team have collected traffic data and prepared various types of traffic
studies pertaining to roadway and intersection operations. As shown in the paragraphs below, our Team
has the experience and qualified, available local staff necessary to provide District One with the required
Traffic Operations Support.
Availability of Staff
Considering projected workloads for the next five years, the Gannett Fleming Team commits to providing
the personnel required to complete any assignment associated with this project within the proposed time-
frame. We have the staff of professional engineers, junior engineers, and technicians to perform several
projects at the same time. Additionally, if the FDOT needs the assistance of a junior engineer at the
FDOT District One office, Gannett Fleming has the available staff to provide someone. Currently, Ms.
Castro is serving as Project Manager on only two major projects, one of which is the current traffic
operations contract. Therefore, she can devote her time to this very important contract for FDOT District
One. Other key senior staff, Mr. Calhoun and Mr. Skaggs, will be highly dedicated to the tasks required
during this project. Our staff availability will permit immediate mobilization and will allow the Gannett
Fleming Team to maintain each task as a high priority throughout its duration. Please see Table 1 for key
senior staff members' availability.
Gannett Fleming understands the importance of providing the highly qualified staff to meet your needs
for this project. We are capable of maintaining our full commitment to this project while meeting the
needs of other clients. Our Team has available over 50 local professional, technical, and administrative
staff that are well-trained in traffic engineering and data collection. Although we understand this contract
does not require an abundance of staff with multiple study teams, we do have additional staff members
experienced in traffic engineering who can be made available to assist on this project if needed. Gannett
Fleming has 12 separate Florida office locations, with a national network of 60 offices that we can pull
experienced staff from and relocate to one of our Florida office locations for the duration of the
assignment.
Qualifications/Certification of Staff
As shown in the organizational chart (See Staffing Chart and Resumes section) and the staff qualifications
table below, Gannett Fleming has assembled a group of professionals with extensive experience in all
aspects of this District Wide contract. We have structured our Team so that we can facilitate multiple
work orders at any given time by offering the capabilities of two distinct study teams. The following is a
detailed description of the key senior staff and their specific roles and expertise for the District Wide
Traffic Operational Studies contract.




                                                     6
                                                                                     Adams Traffic, Inc.
                                                                                     Traffic Data Collection Services


                            Table 1: Senior Staff Qualifications and Availability

                                                                                        Years          Availability
Team Members                Key Staff                    Role              Degree
                                                                                       of Exp.            (%)

Gannett Fleming   Vicki Castro, PE, PTOE       Project Manager           BS and MS         22                 50
                                                                         BS, MBA,
Gannett Fleming   Jay Calhoun, PE              Principal-in-Charge                         33                 25
                                                                         and MA
                                               Senior Transportation
Gannett Fleming   Robert Skaggs, PE, PTOE                              BS                  17                 50
                                               Engineer
Gannett Fleming   Robert Casey                 Transportation Designer                      3                 60
Gannett Fleming   Kevin Pollard                Transportation Designer                      3                 60
Bayside           Oliver Rodrigues, PE, PTOE   Data Collection           BS                19                 70
Bayside           Ronnie Charest               Data Collection                             12                 70
FTE               Ravi Devaguptapu, PE, PTOE Data Collection             BS and MS         17                 45
Adams Traffic     Nancy Adams, PE              Data Collection           BS                20                 60


Vicki Castro, PE, PTOE, will serve as the Project Manager. Ms. Castro brings 22 years of transportation
experience to this project, including eight years with District Seven, where she served as District Safety
Engineer. With Gannett Fleming, she has served as Project Manager on several on-call traffic operations
projects, including the District One District Wide Traffic Studies contract, two District Seven District
Wide Safety Studies contract, and the FDOT District Five District Wide Traffic Operations Studies
contract. For Gannett Fleming's current District Wide Traffic Studies contract, Ms. Castro has conducted
over 250 studies, including signal warrant studies, speed studies, intersection analyses, left-turn warrant
analyses, and other traffic engineering studies throughout the District.
Jay Calhoun, PE, will serve as Quality Assurance/Quality Control (QA/QC) Manager. Mr. Calhoun will
ensure that Gannett Fleming's QA/QC plan is applied to all services and deliverables. He has over 33
years of experience. Mr. Calhoun serves as QC Officer on Gannett Fleming's current District One
District Wide Traffic Studies contract, which has involved approximately 250 task work orders to date.
He served as Project Manager for the FDOT District Three District Wide Miscellaneous Traffic
Operations Analysis/Design Services Project, which included access management, intersection analyses,
and public involvement presentations for locations in the Panhandle. Besides Mr. Calhoun's role as
reviewer, his 33 years of experience provides additional insight in developing recommendations for those
study locations with unusual conditions.
Robert Skaggs, PE, PTOE, will serve as a Senior Transportation Engineer. Mr. Skaggs has over 16 years
of experience. He served as Project Manager on Gannett Fleming's District Seven District Wide Access
Management contract. Mr. Skaggs served as Project Manager on the Chiquita Boulevard Corridor and
Access Study in Cape Coral, where he prepared a corridor study to identify needs for future geometric
improvements and provided median opening recommendations. Tasks included estimating growth rates
and future year traffic volumes; performing capacity analyses (for both intersections and roadway
segments); and determining geometric improvements required to meet adopted level of service standards.
Mr. Skaggs also previously served as Senior Traffic Studies Engineer for four years for the Missouri
Department of Transportation where he oversaw traffic operations maintenance, and reviewed roadway
plans for quality control and for agreement with accepted design standards.
Ravi Devaguptapu, PE, PTOE (FTE), will serve as a Senior Data Collector. Mr. Devaguptapu has over
17 years of experience, including operational analyses, roadway and traffic operations design, ITS, and
transportation planning. He previously provided services on the District One District Wide Miscellaneous
Safety Studies contract, which included signal warrant analyses, intersection analyses, arterial studies, and
composite studies. For various District One District Wide Systems Planning projects, Mr. Devaguptapu




                                                     7
                                                                                  Adams Traffic, Inc.
                                                                                  Traffic Data Collection Services


has provided technical personnel for data collection and reporting activities located on and off the
Highway System within District One.
Oliver Rodrigues , PE, PTOE (Bayside), will serve as a Senior Data Collector. Mr. Rodrigues has over
18 years of traffic operations experience. He is familiar with traffic engineering guidelines, and has
performed qualitative assessment studies and recommended corrective action. Mr. Rodrigues has
evaluated various operational conditions, including congested segments, fatal crashes, intersection delay,
and has conducted signal warrants as well as other studies. Mr. Rodriques has performed traffic data
collection for numerous projects, including the District Six District Wide Traffic Operations Data
Collection and the District Seven District Wide Traffic Operations Studies contracts.
Nancy Adams, PE (Adams Traffic), will serve as a Senior Data Collector. Ms. Adams has over 20 years
of experience and has managed many large data collection projects. She provides hands-on service and is
personally involved in the data collection, quality review, and submittal of each assignment. Her
engineering experience provides her with a broad knowledge of traffic analysis, planning, and design.
Ms. Adams is currently assisting Gannett Fleming with data collection for numerous projects, including
the District One District Wide Traffic Studies contract.
The aforementioned key staff is supported by other technical members who are extremely knowledgeable
in the various studies and designs associated with this type of contract and are competent in the traffic
engineering software used to perform traffic operations analyses. Furthermore, our support staff's
technical experience is properly balanced with their understanding of real-world field conditions.
Quality/Experience on Similar Projects
As shown by the personal backgrounds of our key staff, the Gannett Fleming Team offers a wealth of
experience in conducting District Wide Traffic Operations Studies. A sample of the Gannett Fleming
Team's relevant experience, with performance evaluation grades where applicable, is shown in the
following table.

         Project Name/Description               Owner/Contact:           Phone         Start       End Grade
District One District Wide Traffic Studies ­ FDOT District One       (863) 519-2553     3/07       3/12        3.6
Gannett Fleming, with Bayside and Adams Don Cashdollar                                                         (I)
Traffic as data collection subconsultants, is
providing on-call traffic engineering services
to District One. Tasks include signal warrant
studies, left-turn delay studies, speed studies,
and traffic count data collection for locations
throughout the District. Approximately 250
task work orders have been completed to date.
Several of the signal warrant studies were
conducted at both private and public school
locations throughout the District.
District Seven District Wide Safety Studies FDOT District Seven      (813) 975-6254     1/07       1/12       NA
and Minor Design ­ The main focus of this David Skrelunas, PE
contract has been to coordinate the FDOT
District's efforts for the Federal Safe Routes
to School (SRTS) Program. Gannett Fleming
has evaluated and ranked prospective projects
submitted by local agencies for the SRTS
program.       Some of the infrastructure
applications included candidate sidewalk
projects. Gannett Fleming conducted 24
feasibility studies of the candidate sidewalk
projects and prepared construction plans for 9
of the SRTS sidewalks in Hillsborough,
Pasco, and Pinellas counties, and the City of
Tampa.




                                                    8
                                                                               Adams Traffic, Inc.
                                                                              Traffic Data Collection Services


        Project Name/Description              Owner/Contact:          Phone        Start       End Grade
District Seven District Wide Access FDOT District Seven           (813) 975-6273 12/08 12/12               4.1
Management Support (2) ­ This contract Jim Scott, PE                                                       (I)
provided access management support for
three segments of the US 19 Continuous
Right Turn Lane Project in Pasco County, SR
60 Corridor Access Management Study, and
In-house Staffing.
District Seven District Wide Access FDOT District Seven           (813) 975-6273    8/02       8/08       NA
Management Support (1) ­ This contract Jim Scott
provided recommendations to improve ingress
and egress for a truck stop on SR 52 in Pasco
County. Additionally, an access management
study was completed for approximately 17
miles of US 19 through Pasco County. The
recommendations are currently in design.
District Six Operations and Safety Studies FDOT District Six      (305) 470-5335    9/06       9/08        4.5
Contract ­ Gannett Fleming provides traffic Misleidys Leon
operations and safety studies on an individual
task work order basis. Projects have included
safety studies, access management reviews,
signal warrant studies, level of service
analyses, and speed limit studies.
District Five District Wide Traffic FDOT District Five            (386) 943-5328    8/01       9/06       NA
Operations Studies ­ As a subconsultant, Chris Cairns, PE
Gannett Fleming completed 22 assignments,
including signal warrant analyses, lighting
justification reports, left-turn phase studies,
and intersection analyses.
Chiquita Boulevard Corridor and Access City of Cape Coral         (239) 242-3216    8/06      12/07       NA
Management Study ­ Gannett Fleming Rashad Hanbali, PE
prepared a corridor study to identify
geometric       conditions     required    to
accommodate design year 2030 traffic
volumes. Tasks included: estimating growth
rates; developing opening year, interim year,
and design year traffic volumes; performing
capacity analyses (18 intersections and seven
roadway segments) using HCS, TRANSYT-
7F, and SIDRA; and determining geometric
improvements required to meet adopted level
of service standards.
Ortiz Boulevard Corridor Study - Gannett Lee County Department    (239) 479-8580    3/06       2/09       NA
Fleming prepared a traffic study (design year of Transportation
2030) for this roadway widening project from Eyra Cash, PE
SR 82 (Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard) to
SR 80 (Palm Beach Boulevard). The project
will convert an existing two-lane undivided
roadway to a four-lane divided facility.




                                                  9
                                                                                   Adams Traffic, Inc.
                                                                                  Traffic Data Collection Services


OTHER CONSIDERATIONS
Communications Abilities
The Gannett Fleming Team understands the importance of having a good communication process in order
to have a successful project that meets or exceeds the FDOT's expectations. Our Project Manager will
maintain open communication with the FDOT Project Manager through meetings, emails, and telephone
conferences throughout the entire length of the contract. All Gannett Fleming Team offices are within a
45-minute driving distance from the District One Headquarters. With each task assignment, the Gannett
Fleming Project Manager will discuss with the FDOT Project Manager the study's purposes, any known
and potential issues, scope of services, and submitting schedule. All meetings and telephone
communication with important project information will be documented via meeting minutes and/or email
for backup documentation and verification to make sure that all important activities are covered in the
study. Any issue that arises during a task assignment will be submitted to the FDOT Project Manager via
memorandum, email, and/or telephone for additional direction and proper course of action to proceed.
Once a task is issued with a notice to proceed by the FDOT Project Manager, the Gannett Fleming Team
Project Manager will assign the appropriate team to conduct the study. Constant communication and
coordination will be maintained between team members to ensure all tasks will be completed most
efficiently on-schedule and on-budget.
Approach to Quality Control
Gannett Fleming is an ISO9001:2008 Certified Firm with a quality management program that is approved
by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). The Gannett Fleming Team completely
understands that the key to being successful is to meet and exceed the client's expectations by providing a
high quality product in a timely manner. Each of the members of the Gannett Fleming Team was chosen
because of their reputation for providing client satisfaction.
Gannett Fleming stresses that all employees are responsible for their own work. To assure that the work
is accurate, it is done in pairs. One engineer/designer checks the other's work and brings any
discrepancies to the engineer/designer's and the Project Manager's attention. The Project Manager also
checks the project for the purpose of documenting the accuracy and assuring that the intermediate double
checks have been performed.
The Project Manager, Vicki Castro, PE, PTOE, with over 21 years of transportation engineering
experience, will have overall supervisory responsibility for the project. She will provide the control
necessary to assure proper scheduling and quality work, and that it is completed on time and within
budget. She will serve as the primary point of contact between the Gannett Fleming Team and the FDOT.
Gannett Fleming expects all of the subconsultants to adhere to their own internal QA/QC plans prior to
delivering any work product to us. Gannett Fleming's Project Manager will ensure that time is built into
the production schedule so that the Quality Control Plan is followed.
Commitment to Satisfy FDOT Needs
The Gannett Fleming Team is committed and available to serve District One on the District Wide Traffic
Operational Studies contract. Our Team includes professional engineers that have experience managing
District Wide contracts. The Gannett Fleming Team's designated Project Manager currently has only one
other major project. Therefore, we have the staff availability to commit to this contract. In addition, our
Team is dedicated to improving the safety and operations of our community's roadways, and looks
forward to the opportunity to continue to fulfill this goal with District One.
Sincerely,
GANNETT FLEMING, INC.

Jay H.L Calhoun, PE
Vice President



                                                    10
DISTRICT-WIDE
DISTRICT-
TRAFFIC OPERATIONAL STUDIES




                         STAFFING CHART AND RESUMES
                                                                      FLORIDA DEPARTMENT OF
                                                                   TRANSPORTATION - DISTRICT ONE

                                                                          PROJECT MANAGER
                                                                            Tanya King, PE



                                                                                                                          QUALITY ASSURANCE/
                                                                                                                           QUALITY CONTROL

                                                                    PROJECT MANAGER                                         Jay Calhoun, PE
                                                                   Vicki Castro, PE, PTOE                                Robert Skaggs, PE, PTOE




                                                                                                                               DATA COLLECTION
                                     STUDY TEAM                        STUDY TEAM
                                                                                                                        Oliver Rodrigues, PE, PTOE (Bayside)
                                                                   R      Sk
                                                                     b t Skaggs,
                                                                   Robert        PE PTOE
                                                                                 PE,                                                  Ch
                                                                                                                               R i Charest
                                                                                                                               Ronnie          (Bayside)
                                                                                                                                             t (B   id )
                                Vicki Castro, PE, PTOE
                                                                        Robert Casey                                     Ravi Devaguptapu, PE, PTOE (FTE)
                                      Kevin Pollard
                                                                                                                          Nancy Adams, PE (Adams Traffic)




                                                                                                                                                        Project No.   2211033
                                                   Project
                                                   P j t Title
                                                           Titl              Di i Wide
                                                                             District             O   i l Studies
                                                                                          T ffi Operational
                                                                                      Wid Traffic           S di
                                                                                                                                                           Date       6/20/111
4350 WEST CYPRESS STREET   PHONE (813) 831-8870
SUITE 340                  FAX (813) 831-9375      Drawing Title            Gannett Fleming Team Organizational Chart                                      Page
TAMPA, FLORIDA 33607       WWW.GANNETTFLEMINGCOM                                                                                                                         -
Vicki L. Castro, P.E., P.T.O.E.                                                                Resume

YEARS EXPERIENCE WITH FIRM: 12

YEARS EXPERIENCE WITH OTHER FIRMS: 9

EDUCATION:

B.S., Civil Engineering, University of South Florida, 1988
M.S., Civil Engineering, University of South Florida, 1990
Advanced Maintenance of Traffic, Florida Engineering Society, 2001

PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION(S):

P.E.: Florida - No. 47128 (1993)
Professional Traffic Operations Engineer (P.T.O.E.): No.1362 (2004)

CURRENT RESPONSIBILITIES:

Senior Traffic Engineer responsible for managing traffic engineering services for a wide variety of projects,
including intersection analyses, roadway analyses, traffic impact studies, safety reviews, signal timing
development/implementation, sidewalk design, and lighting justification.

SUMMARY OF EXPERIENCE:

District-Wide Traffic Operations Studies, Florida Department of Transportation (FDOT), District 1. Project
Manager responsible for conducting signal warrant studies, intersection analyses, left-turn warrant analyses, and
other traffic engineering studies throughout the District.

District-Wide Safety Studies and Minor Design, Tampa, FL, FDOT, District 7. Project Manager responsible for
working with the Safe Routes to School Program to evaluate proposed projects. Prepared safety reports at more than
20 locations, as well as the disposition of high crash spots and segment listings. Responsible for the design of
sidewalks in four counties.

District-Wide Traffic Operations Studies, FDOT, District 3. Project Manager responsible for preparing an
advanced street name sign implementation plan for Okaloosa County, conducting an area-wide traffic analysis in
Fort Walton Beach, and developing and implementing signal timings at 15 intersections in Santa Rosa County.

District-Wide Traffic Operations Studies, Northeastern FL, FDOT, District 5. Project Manager responsible for
preparing signal warrant studies, intersection analyses, and corridor analyses at more than 25 locations. Also
conducted a passing-lane study extending more than 20 miles on S.R. 50.

Traffic Impact Analysis, Various Locations, FL, Various Clients. Project Manager responsible for preparing
traffic impact analysis reports for projects in Hillsborough, Orange, Seminole, Lee, and Lake Counties. Tools used
to complete these studies included HCM, ART-TAB, ART-PLAN, and the Institute of Transportation Engineers
Trip Generation Manual and Florida Department of Transportation Level of Service Manual.

New Tampa Traffic Engineering Study, Tampa, FL, City of Tampa. Project Manager responsible for evaluating
existing traffic conditions on three local arterials to be impacted by the planned connection of two arterials in New
Tampa. In addition, bus stop locations/operations were reviewed, signal warrant and speed studies were conducted,
and access management was reviewed. Potential traffic-calming solutions were developed to address concerns
identified during the study. Public workshops were held before and after the study.

Lee County Signal Retiming Phase II, Fort Myers, FL, Lee County. Project Manager responsible for developing,
implementing, and evaluating new signal timings for 47 intersections located throughout Lee County. The project
includes data collection, Synchro analysis, a carbon-credit study, and maintenance of a public Web site.

Collier County Traffic Signal Retiming Project, Naples, FL, Collier County. Project Manager responsible for
developing new signal timings for 34 intersections located along U.S. Route 41 in Collier County and the city of
Naples. The project includes data collection, Synchro calibration, and development of new timings.
Vicki L. Castro, P.E., P.T.O.E.                                                                   Resume

Advanced Traffic Management System and Intelligent Transportation System (ITS) Consulting Services,
Advanced Street Name Signs Study, Clearwater, FL, Pinellas County Board of Commissioners. Project Manager
responsible for evaluating the feasibility of installing advanced street name signs at 101 intersections located on five
corridors in Pinellas County. The study included a crash analysis at each intersection, safety benefit/cost calculation
for each corridor, and a preliminary design of each sign.

Broward County Signal Retiming, Fort Lauderdale, FL, FDOT, District 4. Project Manager responsible for
using SYNCHRO and Tru-Traffic Time-Space and Platoon Progression to develop, implement, fine-tune, and
evaluate signal timing plans at 49 intersections along University Drive and S.R. 7. An additional 53 intersections
were added to this contract.

I-275 Ramp Signaling Study (Floribraska Avenue to Bearss Avenue), Tampa, FL, FDOT, District 7. Project
Manager responsible for analyzing the feasibility of installing ramp signals on 16 interstate ramps on I-275 north of
downtown Tampa. Travel time evaluations using Tru-Traffic Time-Space and Platoon Progression, along with the
computer modeling programs, CORSIM and FREQ, were utilized in the analysis.

I-95 Diversion-Route Timing, Palm Beach County, FL, FDOT, District 4. Project Manager responsible for
developing special timing patterns for all signalized interchanges on I-95 and the adjacent signals in Palm Beach
County. The timings are to be implemented when an incident on I-95 requires traffic to be diverted off the
interstate. Different patterns were developed depending on the direction of the incident, the time of day, and time of
year.

Maintenance of Traffic, Various Locations, FL, Various Clients. Project Manager responsible for preparing
maintenance of traffic plans for a marathon along the Gulf Coast and through downtown Clearwater; the proposed
University of South Florida Homecoming parade route along Fowler Avenue in Tampa; the signal/fiber/camera
installation in Charlotte County; and several road widening projects.

Traffic Engineering Services, Sarasota, FL, City of Sarasota. Project Manager responsible for conducting traffic
impact studies for proposed developments throughout the city using the Institute of Transportation Engineers Trip
Generation Manual and Florida Department of Transportation Level of Service Manual.

Signal Retiming, Tampa, FL, FDOT,, District 7. Project Manager responsible for using Synchro and Tru-Traffic
Time-Space and Platoon Progression to develop, implement, fine-tune, and evaluate signal-timing plans for more
than 100 Peek, Eagle, and Econolite controllers throughout District 7.

EXPERIENCE PRIOR TO GANNETT FLEMING:

Florida Department of Transportation, Tampa, FL

Project Manager for the District-wide Safety Studies Contract and District-wide Traffic Operations Studies
Contract. Managed all safety programs such as high-hazard improvement, skid-hazard improvements, and rail-
highway grade-crossing improvements; coordinated with District staff to make sure safety funds were properly used.
Traffic Operations representative on the Access Management Technical Review Committee. Conducted
investigations of all fatal crashes and locations experiencing high crash rates on the state highway system to identify
roadway deficiencies and implement improvements. Developed traffic engineering reports, including signal
warrants, lighting justification, intersection analyses, and capacity studies. Managed the District's Community
Traffic Safety Programs in Hillsborough, Pinellas, Pasco, and Hernando/Citrus Counties.

PROFESSIONAL AFFILIATIONS:

Institute of Transportation Engineers
Florida Institute of Transportation Engineers
Tampa Bay Institute of Transportation Engineers
Jay H.L. Calhoun, P.E.                                                                          Resume
YEARS EXPERIENCE WITH FIRM: 13

YEARS EXPERIENCE WITH OTHER FIRMS: 20

EDUCATION:

B.S., Civil Engineering, Lehigh University, 1973
M.A., Planning, University of Virginia, 1977
M.B.A., Business, University of South Florida, 1985

PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION(S):

P.E.: Virginia - No. 009937 (1978)                             Georgia - No. 31098 (2006)
Florida - No. 33796 (1983)                                     Illinois - No. 062059762 (2007)
Kansas - No. 16156 (2000)                                      Louisiana - No. PE.0033998 (2008)
Nebraska - No. E-10977 (2003)                                  New York - No. 086305 (2008)
Iowa - No. 17012 (2004)                                        North Carolina - No. 036549 (2010)
Tennessee - No. 108917 (2004)                                  Michigan - No. 6201057736 (2010)
Mississippi - No. 16655 (2005)

CURRENT RESPONSIBILITIES:

Vice President responsible for the design or quality control (QC) of signal systems, intelligent transportation system
(ITS) projects, and traffic engineering studies. Also involved with business development and marketing initiatives.

SUMMARY OF EXPERIENCE:

District-Wide Traffic Operational Studies, Florida Department of Transportation (FDOT), District 1. QC
Officer for this ongoing contract that has involved approximately 190 task work orders to date. Tasks have included
signal warrant studies, left-turn delay studies, speed studies, and traffic-count data collection for locations
throughout the District.

District-Wide Access Management Support, FDOT, District 7. QC Officer for an access management study for
approximately 17 miles of U.S. Route 19 through Pasco County, as well as a truck stop study on S.R. 52.

District-Wide Traffic Operations Consultant, Tampa, FL, FDOT, District 7. Project Manager for the
preparation of more than 70 intersection analyses, signalization plans, and signal warrant studies.

District-Wide Miscellaneous Traffic Operations Analysis/Design Services, Tallahassee, FL, FDOT, District 3.
Project Manager for the preparation of corridor analyses, signal timing, intersection analyses, and public
presentations for locations throughout the Florida Panhandle.

Cape Coral Downtown Community Redevelopment Area Traffic Study, Cape Coral, FL, City of Cape Coral.
QC Officer for the development of a traffic study that included the design of alternative intersection and corridor
improvements to aid the traffic flow and to provide a pedestrian-friendly atmosphere in the downtown area.

Fair-Share Mitigation Methodology, Escambia County, FL, Escambia County. QC Officer for the development
of a fair-share transportation impact methodology plan for Escambia County as a means to offset the capital costs
associated with the roadway improvements related to development traffic.

"Convenience Signal" User-Fee Study, Collier County, FL, Collier County Traffic Operations. QC Officer and
Assistant Project Manager for a study outlining the impacts of private developer signals on the County's arterial
roadways relevant to the cost of the delays they cause. The County was seeking to recoup these costs by
implementing a user fee to those private land owners who are the sole beneficiaries of the signals. Our firm
collected and analyzed data and made recommendations to further this innovative idea.

Annual Contract for Professional Traffic Engineering Services, Collier County, FL, Collier County. Project
Manager for the design of traffic signal installations for several intersections in Collier County. Development of the
installation designs involved site visits, intersection surveys, coordination with utilities, structural design, and
geotechnical exploration.
Jay H.L. Calhoun, P.E.                                                                        Resume
Lee County Advanced Traffic Management System (ATMS) Master Plan Request for Proposals (RFP)
Package and Postdesign, Lee County, FL, FDOT, District 1. QC Officer and Assistant Project Manager for the
development of an ATMS Master Plan, Systems Engineering Management Plan, and an RFP document for a 418-
intersection ATMS in Lee County.

Lee County Incident Management System (IMS) RFP Package and Postdesign, Lee County, FL, FDOT,
District 1. Senior Transportation Engineer responsible for the preparation of the RFP document and for QC of the
plans and minimum technical requirements.

City of Winter Haven ATMS ITS Master Plan and Design-Build Criteria Package, Winter Haven, FL, FDOT,
District 1. QC Officer and Assistant Project Manager for the development of a master plan to upgrade 44 signalized
intersections, 15 CCTV camera installations, a traffic management center (TMC) and central software package, and
a fiber-optic communications network. The project also included preparation of a request for proposal package for
the first phase of the system.

Lee County Incident Management System (IMS) Master Plan, Lee County, FL, FDOT, District 1. Project
Manager for the preparation of a master plan for an IMS to alert motorists to incidents occurring on any one of the
four major bridges in Lee County. Project components included vehicle detection equipment, video monitoring,
DMSs, and highway advisory radio.

City of Punta Gorda/Charlotte County Advanced Traffic Management System (ATMS) Design Group 2,
Charlotte County, FL, Florida Department of Transportation, District 1. Project Manager for the design of 40
intersections and 39 CCTV cameras to be added to the existing ATMS. The communications network includes both
fiber-optic and wireless media.

City of Naples/Collier County ATMS Design Group 2, Collier County, FL, FDOT, District 1. Project Manager
responsible for the design of 76 intersections, the communications cable to interconnect these intersections, and 48
video monitoring locations that were connected to the system, which also included 67 miles of fiber-optic cable.

City of Naples/Collier County ATMS Design Group 1, Collier County, FL, FDOT, District 1. Project Manager
for the preparation of the contract documents for a 77-intersection hybrid system.

City of Punta Gorda/Charlotte County ATMS Design Group 1, Charlotte County, FL, FDOT, District 1.
Project Manager for the preparation of the contract documents for a 55-intersection ATMS.

Broward County/Palm Beach County Advanced Public Transportation System Master Plan, Broward and
Palm Beach Counties, FL, FDOT, District 4. Project Manager for the preparation of a plan to implement ITS
technologies into the transit systems of southeast Florida.

Boca Raton ATMS Master Plan, Boca Raton, FL, City of Boca Raton. Project Manager responsible for
evaluating the City's communications network and determining how to expand it to provide ATMS features.

PROFESSIONAL AFFILIATIONS:

Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE)
Intelligent Transportation Society of Florida
Florida Engineering Society
International Municipal Signal Association

PUBLICATIONS:

Birosak, Chris, Jay H.L. Calhoun, and James C. Gray (co-authors). "The Lakeland Computer-Based Signal System
­ Florida's First Hybrid UTCS System." Florida Engineering Society Journal, June 1994.

AWARDS:

ITS Florida President's Award, 2007, 2010
Florida ITE Transportation Professional of the Year, 2008
Robert W. Skaggs, P.E., P.T.O.E.                                                               Resume

YEARS EXPERIENCE WITH FIRM: 4

YEARS EXPERIENCE WITH OTHER FIRMS: 12

EDUCATION:

B.S., Civil Engineering, University of Missouri - Rolla, 1995
Advanced Maintenance of Traffic, Florida Engineering Society, 2001

PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION(S):

P.E.: Missouri - No. 2000150068 (2000)
Florida - No. 56377 (2000)
Professional Traffic Operations Engineer (P.T.O.E.): No.884 (2002)

CURRENT RESPONSIBILITIES:

Traffic/ITS Manager responsible for managing traffic engineering and intelligent transportation systems (ITS)
design and planning staff. Manages services for a wide variety of projects, including intersection analyses, roadway
analyses, traffic impact studies, safety reviews, signal-timing development and implementation, lighting
justification, and the design of sidewalks, signalization, signing/pavement marking, lighting, freeway management
systems (FMS), and advanced traffic management systems (ATMSs).

SUMMARY OF EXPERIENCE:

District-Wide Safety Studies and Minor Design, FDOT, District 7. Quality Assurance/Quality Control Reviewer
of preliminary reports and conceptual sidewalk design plans associated with the Safe Routes to School Program.

District-Wide Access Management Studies, FDOT, District 7. Project Manager for the completion of an access
management study for 19.7 miles of the U.S. Route 19 corridor in Pasco County, Florida. Staff analyzed 98 existing
full-median openings and developed recommendations for each median opening based on crash history, operational
problems, and existing geometry. Alternative solutions to correct the problems were presented to the appropriate
government agencies such as the City Council of New Port Richey, the Pasco County Board of County
Commissioners, and the Pasco County Metropolitan Planning Organization.

Ortiz Avenue Corridor Study and Design, Lee County, FL, Lee County. Project Manager for the preparation of
signalization plans and lighting plans, which included the photometric analysis for more than 3 miles of
conventional highway lighting using the Visual Professional Software.

Chiquita Boulevard Corridor and Access Study, Cape Coral, FL, City of Cape Coral. Project Manager for the
preparation of a corridor study to identify needs for future geometric improvements and provide median opening
recommendations. Tasks included estimating growth rates and future-year traffic volumes; performing capacity
analyses for both intersections and roadway segments; and determining geometric improvements required to meet
adopted level of service standards.

New Tampa Traffic Engineering Study, Tampa, FL, City of Tampa. Quality Assurance/Quality Control
Reviewer of deliverables associated with the evaluation of existing traffic conditions on three local arterials to be
impacted by the planned connection of two arterials in New Tampa with a proposed bridge over I-75.

I-75 FMS Design-Build Criteria Package, Sarasota and Manatee Counties, FL, Florida Department of
Transportation (FDOT), District 1. Project Manager for the development of a request for proposals (RFP) criteria
package, including conceptual plans, for the full length of I-75 in Sarasota and Manatee counties. Our firm will
provide consultant selection services and post-design support.

Rattlesnake Hammock at Grand Lely Drive, Collier County, FL, Collier County. Project Manager for the
development of signalization and signing and pavement marking plans for this arterial intersection.
Robert W. Skaggs, P.E., P.T.O.E.                                                             Resume

West Florissant Avenue Interconnect Project, St. Louis, MO, City of St. Louis. Project Manager and Engineer of
Record for the design of a fiber-optic interconnect and Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)-compliant upgrades
for this arterial corridor.

S.R. 54 ATMS Master Plan and Design-Build Criteria Package, Pasco County, FL, FDOT, District 7. Project
Manager for development of an ITS master plan and a design-build criteria package for the construction of an
ATMS on S.R. 54, C.R. 1, and Ridge Road in Pasco County. Our firm is currently providing consultant selection
services and post-design support.

Charlotte County I-75 FMS Design-Build Criteria Package, Charlotte County, FL, FDOT, District 1. Project
Manager for the development of a RFP criteria package, including 30 percent plans, for the full length of I-75 in
Charlotte County. Provided consultant selection services and currently providing post-design support.

Construction Planning for U.S. Route 92 Milling and Resurfacing, Plant City, FL, FDOT, District 7. Project
Manager for the development of signalization and signing and pavement marking plans for both urban and rural
sections along this segment of U.S. Route 92 from North Howard Street to west of the Polk County line.

U.S. Route 41 at Woods Edge Parkway, Collier County, FL, Collier County. Project Manager for the
development of signalization and signing and pavement marking plans for this arterial intersection.

FDOT District 7 District-Wide ITS Consultant, FDOT, District 7. Project Manager for the completion of various
ITS tasks related to the Tampa Bay SunGuide ITS Program. Tasks include in-house staffing, ITS plans reviews, and
ITS plans development.

Tampa-Ybor Historic Electric Streetcar Extension Project, Tampa, FL, Hillsborough Area Regional Transit.
Project Manager for the preparation of design-build signalization and signing and pavement marking plans for the
extension of the streetcar limits.

FDOT District 7 Districtwide Signal Retiming, FDOT District 7. Senior Transportation Engineer responsible for
the review and implementation of new signal-timing plans on U.S. Route 19 in St. Petersburg and Dale Mabry
Highway in Tampa.

Cape Coral Parkway/Del Prado Boulevard Intersection Improvements Design, Cape Coral, FL, Lee County.
Project Manager for the design of improvements involving roadway, pavement marking, signalization, and ITS for
the intersection of Cape Coral Parkway and Del Prado Boulevard to allow for a southbound triple-left-turn
movement at the intersection during peak periods.

Boy Scout Drive/Fowler Street Extension Roadway Lighting, Lee County, FL, Lee County. Quality
Assurance/Quality Control Manager for the preparation of lighting plans, lighting report, photometric analysis, and
voltage drop calculation for 1.8 miles of conventional highway lighting.

EXPERIENCE PRIOR TO GANNETT FLEMING:

Missouri Department of Transportation, Kansas City, MO

Senior Traffic Studies Engineer responsible for overseeing maintenance and operation of signals, lighting, and
signing and pavement marking for Jackson, Cass, Johnson, and Henry counties. Reviewed roadway plans for
quality control and for agreement with accepted design standards. Served on a team that updated the statewide
Traffic Signal Manual and presented the new material to engineers and technicians across the state. Also served on
the Traffic Signal and Lighting Quality Circle Team responsible for maintaining a statewide-approved products list.

PROFESSIONAL AFFILIATIONS:

Institute of Transportation Engineers
Tampa Bay Institute of Transportation Engineers
Robert F. Casey                                                                       Resume

YEARS EXPERIENCE WITH FIRM: 3

YEARS EXPERIENCE WITH OTHER FIRMS: 5

EDUCATION:

A.S., Computer-Aided Drafting and Design, ITT-Technical Institute, 2007
16-Hour Confined Space Operations Program, 1997

PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION(S):

Florida: Maintenance of Traffic (Intermediate) 113 (2008)

CURRENT RESPONSIBILITIES:

Traffic/ITS Specialist responsible for assisting in the design of traffic and intelligent transportation
systems (ITS) projects and the preparation of traffic operations studies and traffic impact studies.

SUMMARY OF EXPERIENCE:

FDOT District 1 District-Wide Traffic Studies, FDOT District 1. Transportation Designer responsible
for conducting delay studies, left-turn studies, and speed studies and for providing field review for
locations throughout the District. Also developed condition and collision diagrams for the studies.

U.S. 27 at Ridgewood Lakes Boulevard, Polk County, FL, Florida Department of Transportation
(FDOT), District 1. Transportation Designer responsible for conducting a right-turn study at the
intersection of Ridgewood Lakes Boulevard and U.S. 27.

District-Wide Safety Studies and Minor Design, FDOT, District 7. Transportation Designer
responsible for assisting in preparation of multiple sidewalk feasibility studies.

U.S. 19 Access Management Support, Pasco County, FL, FDOT, District 7. Transportation Designer
responsible for gathering police report information to input into MicroStation for the collision reports
from the Pinellas County line to the Pithlachascotee River in Pasco County. Updated plans for
recommended median-opening modifications.

U.S. 92 From North Howard Street to Polk County Line, Plant City, FL, FDOT, District 7.
Transportation Designer responsible for preparing signing and pavement marking plans for approximately
4 miles of urban and rural roadway in Plant City.

On-Call Traffic Engineering, Collier County, FL, Collier County. Transportation Designer
responsible for providing assistance on this on-call traffic engineering contract. Specific tasks include:

        Rattlesnake Hammock Road at Grand Lely Drive. Transportation Designer responsible for
        assisting with the preparation of signal plans and signing and marking plans.
        U.S. 41, Woods Edge. Transportation Designer responsible for assisting with the preparation of
        signal plans and signing and marking plans.
Robert F. Casey                                                                       Resume

Ives Dairy Road at I-95 Interchange Roadway Improvements, Miami-Dade County, FL, FDOT,
District 6. Transportation Designer responsible for preparing signing and pavement marking plans and
signal plans for an approximately 0.5-mile interchange with three signalized intersections and three ramp
signals.

Tampa Historic Streetcar Extension, Tampa, FL, Hillsborough Area Regional Transit. Transportation
Designer responsible for preparing signing and pavement marking plans for the planned extension of the
streetcar system.

Bayou Club Review, Largo, FL, Bayou Club Community Association.                 Transportation Designer
responsible for preparing a signing plan for the Bayou Club neighborhood.

West Florissant Avenue Signal Interconnect Upgrade, St. Louis, MO, City of St. Louis. Traffic/ITS
Specialist assisting with the preparation of signal plans for eight intersections along West Florissant
Avenue, from Grand Boulevard to Goodfellow Boulevard, to reduce congestion in the area.

Gainesville Advanced Traffic Management System (ATMS), Gainesville, FL, City of Gainesville.
Transportation Designer responsible for preparing condition diagrams for intersection inventory that was
used for signal timing data.

S.R. 25/U.S. 27 Variable Speed Limit System, Broward County, FL, FDOT, District 4.
Transportation Designer responsible for preparing plans for the installation of variable speed limit signs
and closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras from Pembroke Road to Griffin Road.

Dale Mabry Highway Signal Retiming, Tampa, FL, FDOT, District 7. Transportation Designer
responsible for participating in various tasks including conducting a before-run study using Tru-Traffic
Time-Space and Platoon-Progression diagrams.

EXPERIENCE PRIOR TO GANNETT FLEMING:

U.S. Coast Guard, Clearwater, FL

Designer of 1-to-1 scale outlines of tools in AutoCAD to be sent to a machine shop for foam cutting by a
CNC machine.

AWARDS:

U.S. Coast Guard, 2004, received for work done with AutoCAD
Kevin E. Pollard                                                                                 Resume

YEARS EXPERIENCE WITH FIRM: 3

YEARS EXPERIENCE WITH OTHER FIRMS: 2

EDUCATION:

A.S., Computer-Aided Drafting and Design, ITT Technical Institute, 2007
1-Hour QMS Orientation, Gannett Fleming, 2010
International Municipal Signal Association Traffic Signal Level I Certification, Pinellas Technical Education
Centers, 2008
Maintenance of Traffic Intermediate Certification, Pinellas Technical Education Centers, 2008

CURRENT RESPONSIBILITIES:

ITS/Traffic Specialist using engineering principles, computer-aided drafting and design (CADD) programs, and
equipment to prepare designs and construction drawings for intelligent transportation systems (ITS) projects.

SUMMARY OF EXPERIENCE:

District-Wide Traffic Studies, FDOT, District 1. Transportation Designer responsible for collecting field data,
preparing condition diagrams and collision diagrams, conducting speed studies, performing delay studies, and
coordinating scheduling of traffic counters.

District-Wide Safety Studies and Minor Design ­ Safe Routes to School, FDOT, District 7. Transportation
Designer responsible for preparing plans revisions for sidewalk design based on comments received by reviewing
agencies.

District-Wide Operations and Safety Studies Contract, Miami-Dade County, FL, FDOT, District 6.
Transportation Designer assisting with fatal crash analysis by modifying crash diagrams using ArcGIS.

I-75, Shoulder Through-Traffic Design and Estimate, Fort Myers, FL, FDOT, District 1. Transportation
Designer responsible for developing a preliminary design that included conceptual plans for device layout and cost
estimate.

U.S. 19 Access Management Study, Pasco County, FL, FDOT, District 7. Transportation Designer responsible
for conducting a field review to verify existing conditions.

S.R. 52 Flying J Travel Plaza Truck Stop Study, Pasco County, FL, FDOT, District 7. Transportation Designer
responsible for performing a field review of existing conditions and modifying existing condition diagrams and
alternatives figures.

Nebraska Avenue Interconnect, Tampa, FL, FDOT, District 7.                 Transportation Designer responsible for
preparing interconnect plans for one mile of roadway.

Advanced Transportation Management System, Gainesville, FL, City of Gainesville. Transportation Designer
responsible for conducting fieldwork for 84 intersections. Prepared condition diagrams for intersections that were
used for the signal timing data. Conducted "before" travel time studies for timing portion of the project.

District-Wide Signal Retiming Contract, Dale Mabry Highway, Tampa, FL, FDOT, District 7. Transportation
Designer participating in various tasks, including conducting before-and-after travel time run studies using Tru-
Traffic Time-Space/Platoon-Progression software. Also field-verified controller timings.

I-95 Diversion Route Update, Broward County, FL, FDOT, District 4. Transportation Designer assisting in the
preparation of diversion route plans for all the interchanges on I-95 within Broward County. Tasks performed
included data collection such as volumes, speed limit, and lane configuration for the corridors to be used for the I-95
diversion routes.
Kevin E. Pollard                                                                              Resume

Collier County Signal Retiming Group 2, Collier County, FL, Collier County. Transportation Designer
responsible for updating SYNCHRO files for 50 intersections in Collier County. Collected field data at intersections
to be used for SYNCHRO files.

Ortiz Avenue Lighting, Lee County, FL, Lee County. Transportation Designer responsible for preparing
modifications to lighting plans for 2.6 miles of roadway as part of a widening project.

Broward County Signal Retiming, Phase II, Fort Lauderdale, FL, Florida Department of Transportation,
District 4. Transportation Designer responsible for field-verifying condition diagrams and updating them
accordingly. Fine-tuned the implemented signal timings and performed before-and-after travel time delay studies.

Boy Scout Drive/Fowler Street Lighting, Lee County, FL, Lee County. Transportation Designer responsible for
preparing and submitting requests for Federal Aviation Administration permits and for making revisions to lighting
plans for the corridor.

I-95 Contraflow White Paper, Eastern FL, FDOT, District 6. Transportation Designer responsible for developing
maintenance of traffic plans for the I-95 Contraflow White Paper, which included conceptual plans for alternative
entrance and termination options.

S.R. 528, Post Design, Central FL, Florida's Turnpike Enterprise. Transportation Designer responsible for
researching right-of-way (ROW) maps and property appraisal sites to determine ROW during construction.

SunNavSM Incident Detection System Post Design, FL, Florida's Turnpike Enterprise. Transportation Designer
responsible for preparing highway advisory radio wiring detail for the plan set.

FDOT District 7 Roadway Characteristics Inventory Project, Tampa, FL, FDOT, District 7. Transportation
Designer responsible for verifying straight-line diagrams and providing a summary of recommended changes.

EXPERIENCE PRIOR TO GANNETT FLEMING:

VistaNet Ventures, Inc., Sebring, FL

Director of Operations responsible for managing support staff and implementing and maintaining a wide area
network.

Design Styles, Inc., Clearwater, FL

Project Manager responsible for managing design projects and CADD operators to adhere to design standards and
deadlines.

PROFESSIONAL AFFILIATIONS:

International Municipal Signal Association
Superior Engineering Through Teamwork®


                                                     OLIVER R. RODRIGUES, PE, PTOE
                                                               Senior Traffic Engineer
                                    Mr. Rodrigues serves as a senior traffic engineer for Bayside Engineering,
                                    bringing more than 18 years of experience in the fields of traffic operations
                                    and transportation planning studies to the firm. He has performed a variety
                                    of projects for clients throughout Florida.

                                    Traffic engineering & design experience for Mr. Rodrigues includes the
                                    preparation of design plans for traffic signalization, signing and pavement
                                    marking and street lighting projects. He is familiar with traffic engineering
                                    and access management guidelines, and has performed qualitative
Years of Experience                 assessment studies and recommended corrective action. Mr. Rodrigues
With Bayside: 5 years               has evaluated various operational conditions, including congested
-Traffic Practice Leader            segments, fatal crashes, intersection delay, and conducted signal warrants,
With PBS&J: 3 years                 as well as other studies.
-Senior Engineer
With FTE: 10 years                  Transportation planning experience for Mr. Rodrigues includes traffic
-Transportation Engineer            forecasting and assignment, capacity analyses, and type of lanes needed
Total: 19 years                     for travel demand. He performed data collection and evaluation of existing
                                    conditions including roadway conditions, hydrology, natural and cultural
Education                           features, endangered species, and contaminated sites. He previously
B.S. Civil Engineering              completed a corridor feasibility study, addressing long-range regional
University of South Florida, 1991   transportation mobility needs, impacts, and cost. This study considered
                                    transportation/land use relationships, and multimodal systems.
Registrations
Professional Engineer, Civil        PROJECT EXPERIENCE
FL No. 50646
Professional Traffic Operations     ·        HART Transit Emphasis Corridor Improvements Planning &
Engineer No. 1765                            Preliminary Engineering Services, Hillsborough County, FL -
                                             Traffic services for the development of plans for the initial bus
Technical Affiliations                       rapid transit (BRT) type improvements. Mr. Rodrigues conducted
Institute of Transportation                  the study which included a north ­ south alignment from
Engineers                                    Downtown to USF Telecom Park and an east ­ west alignment
Florida Engineering Society                  from Westshore to Netpark.
American Society of Highway
Engineers                           ·        Pinellas County MPO ­ Downtown Clearwater Beach
Community Traffic Safety Team                Elevation of Transit Alternatives ­ Pinellas County, FL ­
                                             Evaluated a bus rapid transit route as a near term solution and
Courses/Seminars                             evaluate higher level transit system as a longer term solution.
"Basic Highway Lighting", Florida            Tasks included identifying route and bus preferential treatments,
Department of Transportation,                identifying and evaluating potential station locations and
2007                                         developing ridership projections.
"The Florida Green Book",
Florida Engineering Society,        ·        Countywide Evaluation of ADA Requirements, Hillsborough
2007                                         County, FL - Developed a strategic master plan for ADA
"Low Cost Road Safety Audit                  requirements at signalized intersections. Conducted a review of
Review Workshop", Florida                    guidelines and policy memoranda and gather current available
Department of Transportation,                data and information. Evaluated existing signalized intersection
2007                                         crosswalk conditions and developed a ranking criteria to prioritize
                                             future ADA capital improvement projects.

                                    ·        FDOT, District One; District-Wide FIHS Corridor Studies; Polk
                                             County, Florida. Collected and evaluated existing conditions,
                                             including roadway features, natural features, and cultural features.
                                             Reviewed traffic count data and performed HCS level of service
                                             analyses for the US 27 corridor from SR 60 to US 192 in Polk
                                             County.
Superior Engineering Through Teamwork®




                               ·
                                             nd
                                         102 Avenue Preliminary Engineering & Design, Pinellas
                                         County, FL - Evaluated traffic data along the project corridor for
                                         the improvement alternatives. Collect traffic data at the Pinellas
                                         Trail and evaluate the pedestrian and bicycle activity. Develop
                                         recommendations for future design, traffic control, and
                                         construction.     Prepare Traffic Technical Memorandum.
                                         Prepare traffic video simulation using CORSIM. Participate in
                                         agency and public meetings.

                               ·         FDOT, District Six; District-Wide Traffic Operations Data
                                         Collection; Dade County, Florida. Collected traffic data for the
                                         District traffic operations staff. Performed quality control reviews
                                         of traffic counts and various studies, consistent with the MUTS.

                               ·         FDOT, District Seven; District-Wide Traffic Operations
                                         Studies; District-Wide, Florida. Performed traffic counts and
                                         delay studies in Pinellas, Hillsborough, Pasco, and Hernando
                                         Counties, consistent with the MUTS. Signed and sealed report
                                         summaries.

                               ·         FDOT General Engineering Consultant, District Seven;
                                         Nebraska Avenue Safety Enhancement; Hillsborough County,
                                         Florida. The study evaluated the enhancement of Nebraska
                                         Avenue from four-lanes undivided to two-lanes divided. The study
                                         considered locations for transit bus bays, pedestrian crossings,
                                         and medians for access control between Kennedy Boulevard and
                                         Hillsborough Avenue. Conducted and summarized travel-time &
                                         delay runs, summarized crash data, and identified crash patterns.

                               ·         FDOT, Turnpike Enterprise; Orlando Western Beltway
                                         Design; Osceola and Orange Counties, Florida. Documented
                                         existing traffic characteristics from traffic count data, developed
                                         future traffic forecasts, prepared signal warrants, and performed
                                         capacity analyses of ramp merge/diverge and weaving areas
                                         using HCS. Recommended ramp lane configuration. Calculated
                                         queue lengths for the turn lanes. Prepared, signed, and sealed
                                         the traffic signalization report recommending signal phasing and
                                         timing, using SOAP, TRANSYT-7F, and TS/PPD. Reviewed the
                                         Lighting Justification Report (LJR) for the lighting design effort.

                               ·         FDOT, Turnpike District; Suncoast Expressway Design;
                                         Hillsborough and Pasco County, Florida. Documented existing
                                         traffic characteristics from traffic count data, developed future
                                         traffic forecasts, prepared signal warrants, and performed
                                         capacity analyses of ramp merge/diverge and weaving areas.
                                         Recommended ramp lane configuration.             Calculated queue
                                         lengths for the turn lanes. Prepared the traffic signalization report
                                         recommending signal phasing and timing, using HCS and
                                         PASSER.

                               ·         FDOT, Turnpike District; Polk County Parkway Design ­
                                         Sections Three and Four; Polk County, Florida. Documented
                                         existing traffic characteristics from traffic count data, developed
                                         future traffic forecasts, prepared signal warrants, and performed
                                         capacity analyses using HCS and PASSER. Recommended
                                         ramp lane configuration. Calculated queue lengths for the turn
                                         lanes. Prepared the traffic signalization report.
Superior Engineering Through Teamwork®


                                                                        RONNIE L. CHAREST
                                                                     Senior Traffic Technician

                                  Mr. Charest is responsible for Bayside's data collection and processing
                                  assignments. Ronnie has over 12 years experience in traffic and data
                                  collection. He is very familiar with the operation of the latest data collection
                                  equipment and software. Mr. Charest's career has included numerous data
                                  collection and inventory assignments, as described below.

                                  PROJECT EXPERIENCE

                                  Data Collection/Statistics: Responsible for the collection of accurate
                                  traffic data for public and private clients. Services include volume,
Years of Experience               classification, speed, and turning movement counts along with stop sign
With Bayside: 14                  delay studies, roadway signs, pavement markings and sidewalk inventory
Total: 14                         tasks. Projects include:

Education
Associate of Science              ·        FDOT D7, US 19 PD&E Study (Pasco County, Florida) ­ Volume
Tampa Technical, 1993                      and turning movement counts
                                  ·        FDOT D7, SR 54 PD&E Study (Pasco County, Florida) ­ Volume
IMSA ­ Associate Traffic Signal            and turning movement counts
Technician ­ Level 1
                                  ·        Hurricane Evacuation Sign Inventory (FDOT) ­ Sign inventory
Signs and Markings                         of hurricane
Specialist Level 1
                                  ·        Hurricane Evacuation Shoulder Plan (FDOT) ­ Data collection
Intermediate Maintenance of                of measurements of the bridges and shoulders on I-75
Traffic - Work Zone/Traffic       ·        Contraflow Implementation Plan (FDOT) ­ Data collection of
Control                                    existing exit geometry
                                  ·        Pedestrian Sleeves for the City of Sarasota ­ Tube and turning
                                           movement counts
                                  ·        Nebraska Avenue Safety Study ­ Pedestrian survey
                                  ·        District Seven District Wide Traffic Operations (FDOT)-
                                           Volume counts, turning movement counts, and delay studies
                                  ·        SR 45 (US 41) @ CR 48 Floral City (Citrus County) ­ Volume
                                           and turning movement counts
                                  ·        Traffic Impact Study for 34 Developments (Hillsborough
                                           County) ­ Volume and turning movement counts
                                  ·        Hillsborough County-Wide Data Collection                  ­   Volume,
                                           classification, speed, and turning movement counts
                                  ·        US 301 Old Harney Road to North of Holloman's Branch
                                           Bridge (FDOT) ­ Sign inventory and existing striping study
                                  ·        US 301 Zephyrhills Travel Time Study (Pasco County) ­ Travel
                                           time delay study
                                  ·        License Plate Survey (Sarasota) ­ License Plate Survey to
                                           determine travel paths
                                  ·        SR 50 PD&E (Hernando County) ­ Volume and turning
                                           movement counts
                                  ·        SR 70 PD&E (Manatee County) ­ Sign inventory and volume and
                                           turning movement counts
Superior Engineering Through Teamwork®


R. Charest page 2              ·         Springhill/Mariner B Travel Time Studies (FDOT) ­ Conducted
                                         before and after travel time runs for FDOT Districtwide traffic
                                         signal retiming
                               ·         US 301 (FDOT) ­ Sign and pavement marking inventory and
                                         evaluation
                               ·         SR 540 Traffic Counts (Polk County) ­ Classification counts


                               ·         SR 45 (US 41) @ Gator Lane, Land O' Lakes High School
                                         (Pasco County) ­ Volume and turning movement counts
                               ·         US 27 (SR 25) from SR 60 Towerview Boulevard (Polk County)
                                         ­ Volume and turning movement counts and condition diagrams
                               ·         Waters/Anderson I.T.S. Signs (Hillsborough County) ­ Volume
                                         tube counts and turning movement counts and pull box inventory
                               ·         Truck Route Plan Update (Hillsborough County) ­ Classification
                                         and turning movement counts
                               ·         Wedgewood Village Detailed Traffic Analysis (Hillsborough
                                         County) ­ Classification tube counts and turning movement
                                         counts
                               ·         SR 60 Traffic Counts (Hillsborough County) ­ Approach counts,
                                         turning movement counts, and weekend pedestrian and bicycle
                                         counts for 22 intersections along a six-lane and eight-lane arterial
                                         highway
                               ·         Lithia-Pinecrest Large Truck Study (Hillsborough County) ­ 48-
                                         hour classification and speed studies at four locations; approach
                                         counts and turning movement counts at six locations; weekend
                                         pedestrian and bicycle counts at five locations
                               ·         Residential Traffic Studies (Hillsborough County)- Volume and
                                         speed counts
                               ·         Symmes ­ Ekkwill Traffic Impact Study (Hillsborough County) ­
                                         Volume and turning movement counts
                               ·         Race Track Road PD&E (Hillsborough County) ­ Volume and
                                         turning movement counts
                               ·         Tampa Palms/Palms Springs Boulevard @                    CR     581
                                         (Hillsborough County) ­ Turning movement counts
                               ·         St. Joseph's Van Dyke Road Travel Time Run (Hillsborough
                                         County) ­ Travel time delay studies
                               ·         Sidewalk Inventory (Hillsborough County)- Volume counts and
                                         inventory
                               ·         MacDill Air Force Base Truck Entrance (Tampa) ­ Volume and
                                         turning movement counts


                               ·         St. Anthony's Hospital (St. Petersburg) ­ Driveway approach
                                         volume counts


                               ·         SR 50 / US 19 Travel Time Studies (FDOT) ­ Conducted "before
                                         and after" travel time runs for FDOT Districtwide Traffic Signal
                                         Retiming


                               ·         Four-Way Stop Studies (City of Tampa)- Radar speed studies
                                                            TOWN 


                                                Key Qualifications 
    Ravi Devaguptapu, P.E., PTOE                Mr. Devaguptapu has more than 17 years of experience with project traffic 
    Senior Project Manager                      reports, operational analyses, roadway design, ITS, traffic operations design, 
                                                transportation planning, traffic impact studies and Development of Regional 
                                                Impact Studies (DRIs) in Florida.  He has worked with FSUTMS for several 
                                                projects including the Bonita Springs Traffic Circulation Study.  He was 
                                                extensively involved with the origindestination surveys, household surveys, 
                                                and trip attraction surveys for District Seven's Regional Travel Characteristics 
                                                Study.  The responsibilities for these surveys included field review of survey 
                                                sites, scheduling staff and mobilizing equipment, onsite supervision, design 
                                                of databases, data analysis and summary, and documentation. 
                                                 
                                                D1 Districtwide Miscellaneous Safety Studies, FDOT Contract No. C6605, 
    Firm                                        FPID 19805213201 (19972002): Provided services for Signal Warrant 
    Florida Transportation Engineering, Inc.    Analysis, Intersection Analysis, Arterial Study, Composite Study. Tasks 
                                                included SR 45 (US 41) from North of 69th Street to SR 684 (Cortez Road) 
    Years of Experience                         Manatee County Safety Improvement Evaluation; Charlotte County Off
    17 Years with FTE                           System Sidewalk Improvement Study; I75 Aerial Survey; Turn Lane Feasibility 
                                                Study on US Bus 41 at 21st Street; US 17 at Regent Road Safety Improvement 
    Education                                   Evaluation; Districtwide Crash Locations Studies, Fatal Crash and Skid 
    M.S., Civil, Arizona State Univ., 1994;     Reviews; SR 25 (US 27) at US 192 Safety Evaluation Study, Phase II; 8hour 
    B.S., Civil, JNTU India, 1991               Turning Movement Counts and Pedestrian Counts; Intersection Analysis for SR 
                                                780/Fruitville Road at Beneva Road (and to the west); Safety Engineering 
    Professional Registrations                  Analysis.; Client/Owner: FDOT District 1 Traffic Operations, Amy Perez (800) 
    Professional Engineer: FL (53150)           2923368. 
    Professional Engineer: GA (034439)           
    Professional Engineer: TN (00113596)        D1 Districtwide Systems Planning, Transportation Statistics (5 Contracts as 
    Professional Engineer: SC (27710)           Prime 1 as Subconsultant) [1998Ongoing]: Responsible for providing 
    Professional Engineer: AL (08235)           technical personnel to perform services to support the Planning Department 
    Professional Engineer: AR (14201)           specifically related to data collection and reporting activities on roadways that 
    PTOE (1112)                                 are located on and off the Highway System within District 1. Tasks included 
                                                Highway Performance Monitoring Systems (HPMS) Inventory, Data Entry and 
    Professional Certifications 
                                                QC; Rail/Highway Grade Crossing Inventory (RHC); Update Existing Straight 
    · UCF Timing Traffic Signals 
                                                Line Diagram (SLDs); RCI, Data Entry and QC On and OffSystem; General 
    · FDOT Basic Highway Lighting and 
                                                Mapping Services. Reference: FDOT Project Manager, Ronald Gruver, 863
      Electricity Course 
                                                5192547. 
    · FDOT FSUTMS Workshop Advanced 
                                                 
      Travel Demand Modeling 
                                                Bonita Springs Traffic Circulation Study, Bonita Springs, FL: Project Engineer 
    · FDOT FSUTMS Workshop  
                                                (20062008): Responsible for conducting the tasks of Traffic Data Collection 
    · Calibration Workshop 
                                                (24hour volume counts at 25 locations), Spot Speed Studies at 11 locations, 
    · Highway Capacity Analysis Workshop 
                                                Speed Limit Evaluation at 11 locations, Stop Sign Evaluation Studies at 19 
    · TRAFNetsim Workshop 
                                                locations, Sight Distance Studies at 10 locations, Existing Conditions 
    · Work Zone Control Safety  
                                                Evaluation, Video Data Collection for 10 roadways, Collision Diagrams for 30 
    · Certification  MOT Level II 
                                                locations, Travel Demand Model (FSUTMS) Calibration, Travel Demand Model 
    · Advanced Maintenance of Traffic 
                                                (FSUTMS) runs for 2 years and 8 alternatives, Travel Demand Model runs for 
    · OUATS Travel Demand Forecasting 
                                                Corridor Feasibility Studies (21 scenarios), Provide assistance with Senate Bill 
      Workshop 
                                                360, Review of Traffic Impacts from Proposed Developments, Concurrency 
    · Roadway Design Workshop 
                                                Issues, GIS Mapping, Intersection Improvement Evaluation, Interchange 
    · Traffic Signals Workshop IMSA 
                                                Evaluation, Roadway Classification, Public Involvement, Corridor Feasibility 
    · Developing Engineer Institute 
                                                Studies for 5 corridors, Project Cost Estimates, Prioritization of Roadway 
    · QC Manager
                                                Improvements, and Roadway Alignment. Owner: City of Bonita Springs, Daryl 
                                                C. Walk, P.E. (941) 3901000. 
                                                 
                                                                                                                    1 | P a g e  
 
                      TOWN OF FORT MYERS BEACH REQUESTION FOR QUALIFICATIONS 
 
SR 9 (I95) South of Donald Ross Road to South of Indian Town Road in Palm Beach County; FDOT Contract C8771; (2007
2008)  Data Collection and OriginDestination for two interchanges.  The work included 10 72hour bidirectional machine 
counts, 6 Turning Movement Counts, and an origin­destination survey using the moving vehicle license plate method 
described in the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) "Manual of Traffic Engineering Studies" on Indiantown Road 
between the I95 northbound off ramp and Island Way.  The study was performed for eight hours. Client: Greenhorne & 
O'Mara, Inc. (West Palm Beach), Lee Watts, III, (561) 6867707; Owner: FDOT D4. 
 
US1/South Dixie Highway (Bus way) PD&E Study (2011Ongoing): FTE is currently under negotiations as a sub consultant 
for the Miami Dade Expressway Authority.  The services FTE will be performing include: 72hour arterial counts at 362 
locations, turning movement counts at 94 intersections, and 72hour miscellaneous counts at 57 locations.  FTE will perform 
Crash Data Analysis, Inventory of existing signage along the project study area, Origin Destination Survey, Travel Time 
Survey Information and Analysis, AutoOccupancy Study, Modeling through Trip Development, Defining Target Travel 
Times, Development of Design Traffic, Travel Time Validation, and will manage Lanes Concepts Alternatives Testing. Client: 
Gannett Fleming, Inc., Alan S. BrickTurin, P.E., (786) 8459540; Owner: MiamiDade Expressway Authority (MDX). 
 
Tampa Hillsborough County Expressway Authority Plaza Survey (20092010): Through the scope of services for this 
contract FTE performed the following tasks: notification / obtaining approvals for handout survey with relevant agencies, 
performing origin destination survey at 11 locations throughout the plaza, providing personnel to hand  out the surveys to 
motorists, distributing 10,000 handout cards, handout survey training and safety briefing, survey form production: 
providing liaison services with SunPass Division and  Management of mailout process: survey data entry through having 
over 3000 survey cards returned to a designated PO Box. Client: Wilbur Smith Associates, Jonathon Hart (203)8652191; 
Owner: THCEA. 
 
D3 Districtwide Miscellaneous Traffic Count Services: FDOT Contract No. BDQ40, FPID 22098413214 (6/2010On
going): The scope of this project is to provide the Department with Eight (8), Ten (10), and Twelve (12) hour Intersection 
traffic counts, twentyfour hour traffic counts, vehicle speed studies, intersection delay studies, vehicle gap studies, 
intersection topography, special counts, and travel time and delay studies throughout the District as requested.  Reference: 
FDOT Project Manager, Phillip Kurth, P.E., (850) 4159485. 
 
D6 Districtwide Miscellaneous Planning Studies, FDOT Contract No. C8T89, FPID 40819911202 (2007, OnGoing):  
Provided Inhouse support, statewide district coordination and involved in the following programs: roadway jurisdictional 
transfers, urban boundaries, functional classification, NHS designations, RCI, SLD's, HPMS development, traffic count 
stations program, TTMS and PTMS implementation, work program, project traffic forecasting, database management, and 
LOS. Client/Owner: FDOT District 6: Jennifer Barrow 3054705382  
 
D7 Districtwide Travel Characteristics, FDOT Contract No. C5600, FPID 25915211201, (19951997): Assisted in 
updating, expanding and maintaining the transportation planning database for the Tampa Bay Region. The services 
include7,800 household surveys conducted in urban, suburban, and transitioning areas; 12,000 travel logs completed along 
with the Household  survey; Visitor/ Seasonal Travel Behavior Survey at 24 locations; survey of 6 long haul trucking 
companies & 7 short haul trucking companies; Taxi Trip Survey of 2 major cab companies; Truck Attraction Survey at 25 
locations including an airport, seaports, railroad terminal, residential, industrial, commercial, and office locations; Trip 
Attraction Survey at 57 attraction sites in urban, suburban, and transitioning areas; and a Hotel/ Motel Guest Survey at 18 
hotels/ motels including resort, business, and economy hotels/ motels. Reference: FDOT Project Manager, Daniel R. Lamb, 
(813) 9756437. 
 
D6 Traffic Monitoring Sites Implementation and Professional Services, FDOT Contract No. C7748, FPID 25218011202  
(19992001):  Pavement Deficiency Evaluation and Reporting; TMS Installation Through Work Program Projects; Preparation 
of Document Submitted for Work Program; Engineering Support Staff; District Pavement Management System Process 
Enhancement; Database Management and Digital Mapping; Development of Year 2000 Project Recommendations; Identify, 
Obtain, Review Cost Estimate Information; Apply Estimated Unit Cost to Projects; Prepare Documentation for Submittal for 
Work Program; Conduct Work Sessions and Executive Briefing. Client/Owner: FDOT District 6 Statistics, Ernesto Polo (305) 
3775891. 
 

                                                                                                                2 | P a g e  
 
Adams Traffic, Inc.
                                        NANCY D. ADAMS, P.E.

   Ms. Adams is President of Adams Traffic, Inc. (AT) which provides traffic data collection services
   including turning movement, volume, speed, and classification counts throughout Florida. Ms. Adams
   has been responsible for the data collection assignments on numerous transportation projects for the
   Florida DOT and many local government agencies. As a professional engineer, her career has included
   design and plans preparation of traffic signals, signing, pavement markings, roadways, intersection
   improvements, and highway lighting for local and state roadways. She has performed a wide variety of
   traffic studies including trip generation, signal warrant analysis, traffic impact studies, intersection
   improvement studies, and design traffic studies.

   Project Experience:
   In the past twenty years, Ms. Adams has managed several traffic data collection projects. Services have
   included volume, speed, classification, and turning movement counts along with radar speed, saturation
   flow rate, traffic control compliance, and travel time and delay studies. Recent projects include:

       FDOT District One District-wide Signal Retiming ­ Subconsultant providing traffic data
       collection for signal retiming projects. Assignments include collecting 7-day volume, 24-hour
       approach, and 8-hour turning movement counts along various state roadways.

       FDOT District One District-wide Traffic Studies ­ Subconsultant providing traffic data
       collection for various intersection studies. Assignments have included approach counts, turning
       movement counts, delay studies and radar spot speed studies.

       FDOT District One District-wide Access Management ­ Subconsultant providing traffic data
       collection for access management studies. Assignments have included turning movement
       counts and radar spot speed studies.

       FDOT Districts One & Seven Statistics Traffic Counts ­ Subconsultant providing annual
       volume and classification counts utilizing FDOT Survey Processing Software.

       FDOT District Seven District-wide Traffic Operations Studies ­ Subconsultant responsible for
       various data collection tasks including collecting turning movement and approach counts in
       Pinellas, Hillsborough, Hernando, Pasco, and Citrus counties.

       Manatee County Signal Retiming Project ­Subconsultant responsible for collecting 7-day
       volume counts, 24-hour approach counts and weekday & weekend turning movement counts at
       71 intersections during the peak season.

       I-75 (Moccasin Wallow Road to North of Fletcher Avenue) PD&E ­ Data collection
       subconsultant responsible for collecting 72-hour volume counts and peak hour turning
       movement counts at the nine I-75 interchanges.

       Traffic Impact Studies ­AT has collected hundreds of volume and turning movement counts for
       various trip generation, traffic impact and signal warrant studies.

   Work Experience:
      President, Adams Traffic, Inc., January 2001 to Present
      President, Markham ­ Stukes, Inc., May 1994 to December 1999
      Traffic Design Engineer, Florida DOT District Seven, February 1992 to May 1994
      Project Engineer, Seminole Engineering, May 1990 to February 1992

   Education:
      B.S., Civil Engineering, University of South Florida, 1990

   Registration:
       Professional Engineer, Florida - #49288, 1995
DISTRICT-WIDE
DISTRICT-
TRAFFIC OPERATIONAL STUDIES




                    SAMPLE SIGNAL WARRANT ANALYSIS
             SR 700 (US 98) @ BELLA VISTA STREET
             LAKELAND, POLK COUNTY, FLORIDA



                    SECTION NO. 16210-000
                          M.P. 1.766

CONTINUING    SERVICES CONTRACT FOR TRAFFIC OPERATIONS
             FINANCIAL PROJECT ID: 198346-1-32-03
                    CONTRACT NO. C8K73
                  WORK ORDER NUMBER 174




       FLORIDA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
                District One Traffic Operations
                 801 North Broadway Avenue
                     Bartow, Florida 33830




                         VANUS,INC.
                    4350 West Cypr~ss Street
                           Suite 340
                      Tampa, Florida 33607
                                                  Continuing Services Contract for Traffic Operations
                                                                            Signal Warrant Analysis
                                                                                Polk County, Florida


                                    EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

The purpose of this study is to determine if the intersection of SR 700 (US 98) and Bella Vista
Street located in Lakeland, Polk County, meets standard warrants for fully operational
signalization, and, if a traffic signal should be installed.      The analysis was performed in
accordance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD) and the Manual on
Uniform Traffic Studies (MUTS), a guide used by the Florida Department of Transportation
(FDOT) for preparing traffic studies.


The intersection is currently operating as a two-way stop with stop signs on Bella Vista Street.
There is no control on US 98. There is an emergency signal at the intersection for the fire station
located in the southwest corner.


Based on documentation provided in this study, VANUS, Inc. (VANUS) determined that none of
the traffic signal warrants are met at the intersection. Therefore, a fully operational traffic signal
is not recommended. The intersection was widened during the analysis period. Since the
completion of the widening, there has been an increase in the number of angle crashes.


It is recommended that the crash history be reviewed at the end of 2010 to determine if there has
been a change in the number of angle crashes since the opening of the medical clinic. If the
pattern of angle crashes continues, the following changes are recommended:


·   The side-street approaches be signed as RIGHT TURN ONLY along with pavement arrows.
·   The westbound left-turn lane be eliminated by striping out the lane.
·   The eastbound approach be striped to channelized the motorist into a right-turn movement.


According to the 2003 MUTCD, the advanced EMERGENCY VEHICLE signs on US 98 need
supplemental EMERGENCY SIGNAL AHEAD plaques. In addition, based on the number of
rear-end crashes occurring on US 98 at this intersection, the following changes are also
recommended:




S:\20707174\REPORTS\Final Rpt.doc                 i                                        February 2010
                                               Continuing Services Contract for Traffic Operations
                                                                         Signal Warrant Analysis
                                                                             Polk County, Florida


·   Install larger EMERGENCY VEHICLE signs on US 98.
·   Add an additional EMERGENCY VEHICLE sign southbound in the median.
·   Install flashing yellow beacons interconnected with the traffic signal controller assembly on
    the advanced warning signs on the outside shoulder of US 98.




S:\20707174\REPORTS\Final Rpt.doc               ii                                     February 2010
                                                                   Continuing Services Contract for Traffic Operations
                                                                                             Signal Warrant Analysis
                                                                                                 Polk County, Florida


TABLE OF CONTENTS


Section            Description                                                                                                      Page


                   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ................................................................................... i
    1              INTRODUCTION..................................................................................................1
    2              EXISTING CONDITIONS ...................................................................................2
    3              DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS ...........................................................5
                   QUALITATIVE ASSESSMENT ............................................................................5
                   TRAFFIC VOLUME DATA SUMMARY ...........................................................11
                   INTERSECTION DELAY ANALYSIS................................................................11
                   CRASH ANALYSIS .............................................................................................13
                   SIGNAL WARRANT ANALYSIS.......................................................................14
    4              RECOMMENDATIONS.....................................................................................24


                                                            FIGURES


Figure


    1              Location Map ...........................................................................................................3
    2              Scooter Crossing US 98 ...........................................................................................7
    3              Pedestrian Crossing Bella Vista Street ....................................................................7
    4              Condition Diagram...................................................................................................8
    5              SR 700 (US 98) @ Bella Vista Street ­ Northbound...............................................9
    6              SR 700 (US 98) @ Bella Vista Street ­ Southbound...............................................9
    7              SR 700 (US 98) @ Bella Vista Street ­ Eastbound ...............................................10
    8              SR 700 (US 98) @ Bella Vista Street ­ Westbound..............................................10




S:\20707174\REPORTS\Final Rpt.doc                                  iii                                                       February 2010
                                                                  Continuing Services Contract for Traffic Operations
                                                                                            Signal Warrant Analysis
                                                                                                Polk County, Florida


                                                            TABLES


Table              Description                                                                                                    Page


    1              Turning Movement Count Summary .....................................................................12
    2              Intersection Delay ..................................................................................................13
    3              Collision Summary ................................................................................................15
    4              Traffic Signal Warrant Summary...........................................................................19


                                                        APPENDICES


Appendix


    A              COUNT DATA SHEETS
    B              INTERSECTION DELAY STUDY FIELD SHEETS
    C              COLLISION DIAGRAMS




S:\20707174\REPORTS\Final Rpt.doc                                 iv                                                       February 2010
                                                Continuing Services Contract for Traffic Operations
                                                                          Signal Warrant Analysis
                                                                              Polk County, Florida


                                        SECTION ONE
                                       INTRODUCTION


VANUS, Inc. (VANUS) has been retained by the Florida Department of Transportation (FDOT)
District One to provide transportation engineering services associated with the Continuing
Services Contract for Traffic Operations Studies. This Signal Warrant Analysis for SR 700 (US
98) at Bella Vista Street was prepared as part of the services covered under this contract pursuant
to the Letter of Authorization for Work Order Number 174, dated November 19, 2009.


This study evaluates the need for fully operational signalization at this location and provides
recommendations for improvements to the intersection based upon 24-hour machine counts,
eight-hour turning movement counts (TMCs), collision analyses, field reviews/inventories,
qualitative assessments, intersection delay analyses, a signal warrant analysis, and engineering
judgment.




S:\20707174\REPORTS\Final Rpt.doc                1                                       February 2010
                                                 Continuing Services Contract for Traffic Operations
                                                                           Signal Warrant Analysis
                                                                               Polk County, Florida


                                        SECTION TWO
                                    EXISTING CONDITIONS


This report summarizes the traffic signal warrant analysis conducted for the intersection of US
98 at Bella Vista Street. A location map is included as Figure 1. The evaluation included
analyses of traffic volumes, crash frequency, vehicular delay, and roadway characteristics. A
final recommendation is based upon a combination of analytical results and engineering
judgment.


US 98 is a principal arterial roadway extending north/south through central Polk County. In the
vicinity of the study area, US 98 is a four-lane undivided, curb and gutter urban roadway with,
typically, 12-foot travel lanes, 4-foot bike lanes, and a 15-foot two-way left-turn lane. There is a
northbound right-turn lane. The posted speed limit is 45 miles per hour (mph). There are
sidewalks and street lights on both sides US 98. There is a bus stop and shelter located on
northbound US 98 just south of the intersection. The pavement and markings on US 98 are in
good condition. The intersection was recently widened as part of the construction of the Watson
Clinic in the southeast corner, which opened in February 2009.


Bella Vista Street is a two-lane roadway. There is a westbound left-turn lane. The eastbound
approach is a single lane but is wide enough for two vehicles at the intersection. The posted
speed limit is 30 mph. There are no street lights on either approach. There is a sidewalk on the
south side of Bella Vista Street. Traffic control consists of a stop sign and stop bar on both
approaches to the intersection. There are marked crosswalks on both approaches to cross Bella
Vista Street. There are no crosswalks for US 98.


An emergency signal is located at the intersection for the fire station on the southwest corner.
There are two, three-section signals facing US 98 in both directions which flash yellow. There
are two far-side and one near-side, three-section signals facing each approach on Bella Vista
Street, which flash red. There is an EMERGENCY SIGNAL sign mounted between the two
signal heads on all four approaches. In addition, there are EMERGENCY VEHICLE warning
signs on all four approaches. There are also EMERGENCY SIGNAL AHEAD supplemental


S:\20707174\REPORTS\Final Rpt.doc                2                                       February 2010
                                                                                                                                                                           N




                                                                                              Project Location
$(GCA) S:\20707174\GRAPHICS\Location Map.dgn


                                                          8:43:32 AM




                                                                       4350 WEST CYPRESS STREET
                                                          Time:




                                                                                                         Project   SR 700 (US 98) @ Bella Vista Street   Project No.   20707174
                                                                       SUITE 340
                                                                                                          Title          Lakeland, Polk County
                                                                       TAMPA, FLORIDA 33607
                                                                                                                                                            Date       01/05/10
                                                                       PHONE (813) 831-8870
                                                          2/19/2010
                                               $(USER2)




                                                                       FAX (813) 831-9375               Drawing
                                                                                                                             Location Map
                                                                       WWW.VANUSINC.COM                   Title                                             Page          3
                                               Name:
Title:


                                                          Date:
                                                Continuing Services Contract for Traffic Operations
                                                                          Signal Warrant Analysis
                                                                              Polk County, Florida


plaques on the Bella Vista Street approaches to the intersection. The nearest traffic signals on
US 98 are located approximately ½-mile to the south at Parkview Place/10th Street and one mile
to the north at Griffin Road. There is a house on the northwest corner, a small shopping plaza on
the northeast corner, and the Watson Clinic on the southeast corner. Simpson Park, a large city
park with a swimming pool, baseball fields, and hall, is located on Bella Vista Street just west of
the intersection.




S:\20707174\REPORTS\Final Rpt.doc                4                                       February 2010
                                                 Continuing Services Contract for Traffic Operations
                                                                           Signal Warrant Analysis
                                                                               Polk County, Florida


                                           SECTION THREE
                                    DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS


The data collection efforts and analysis procedures in this study were performed to determine
whether a fully operational traffic signal is warranted at the intersection of US 98 and Bella Vista
Street. The tasks included a qualitative assessment of the existing intersection condition and
operation; a traffic volume data summary and analysis; an intersection delay analysis; a crash
analysis; and a signal warrant analysis.


Field data collected at the intersection included 24-hour road-tube counts on all approaches;
eight-hour vehicle, pedestrian, and bicycle TMCs; approach photographs; and field observations.
Crash data were obtained from the Polk County Traffic Engineering Division and the FDOT for
the period from January 1, 2006 to November 30, 2009.


The data was analyzed and used to evaluate eight individual traffic signal warrants. References
utilized when performing the analysis included the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices
(MUTCD), the Manual on Uniform Traffic Studies (MUTS), and the Institute of Transportation
Engineers (ITE) Manual of Traffic Engineering Studies.


QUALITATIVE ASSESSMENT


The intersection was investigated by a qualified, registered engineer during the mid-day and PM
peak traffic periods under normal weekday conditions on February 2, 2010. The following
observations were made during the peak hours:


Mid-Day Peak Hour (12:00 ­ 1:00 PM)
·   Northbound and southbound traffic appeared to be balanced.
·   There were a significant number of southbound left-turning vehicles.
·   The heaviest side-street movement was the westbound right turn, with the longest queue
    being eight vehicles.



S:\20707174\REPORTS\Final Rpt.doc                5                                       February 2010
                                                 Continuing Services Contract for Traffic Operations
                                                                           Signal Warrant Analysis
                                                                               Polk County, Florida


·   There was minimal left-turn or through movements from either side-street approach, with no
    queues.
·   Two of the three motorists that attempted to make an eastbound left turn gave up and turned
    right.
·   Two of the eight motorists that attempted to make a westbound left turn gave up and turned
    right.
·   The intersection is located immediately south of a slight horizontal curve. It does not appear
    to impact the sight distance from either approach.
·   There was significant pedestrian and bicycle traffic at the intersection, mostly crossing Bella
    Vista Street.


PM Peak Hour (4:00-5:00)
·   Traffic volumes in the intersection appeared to be heavier than during the mid-day. There
    appeared to be significantly more northbound traffic, which created more delay for the
    westbound right-turning vehicles and the southbound left-turning vehicles.
·   The southbound left-turn volume appeared to have more of an impact on the congestion at
    the intersection. The heavy northbound volume combined with the southbound left-turn
    volume caused more delay for the side street movements, including the westbound right-turn.
·   The heaviest side-street movement was the westbound right turn, with the longest queue
    being eight vehicles. It took approximately 3 ½ minutes for the queue to dissipate.
·   The longest westbound left-turn queue was two vehicles. It took 3 ½ minutes for the queue
    to dissipate. The first vehicle in the queue gave up after 3 minutes and turned right.
·   Four of the 17 motorists that attempted to make a westbound left-turn gave up and turned
    right.
·   One of the seven motorists that attempted to make an eastbound left turn or through gave up
    and turned right.
·   The left-turn movements from both side-streets were observed driving the wrong way on US
    98 to access the two-way left-turn lane as a refuge area. One eastbound left-turning vehicle
    was observed driving behind a southbound left-turning vehicle on US 98.
·   There appeared to be significantly more delay for the side-street vehicles to complete their
    movement, including the westbound right turns.

S:\20707174\REPORTS\Final Rpt.doc                6                                           February 2010
                                                 Continuing Services Contract for Traffic Operations
                                                                           Signal Warrant Analysis
                                                                               Polk County, Florida


·   There was significant pedestrian and bicycle traffic at the intersection, mostly crossing Bella
    Vista Street. Some were observed crossing US 98 by weaving through traffic as shown in
    Figure 2. Figure 3 shows a pedestrian walking eastbound in the street on the north side of
    Bella Vista Street. There is a sidewalk on the south side of Bella Vista Street.




         Figure 2: Scooter Crossing US 98                 Figure 3: Pedestrian on Bella Vista Street




A condition diagram detailing the existing characteristics of the intersection is shown in Figure
4. Photographs were taken of each of the approaches and are presented as Figures 5 to 8.




S:\20707174\REPORTS\Final Rpt.doc                7                                          February 2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        STRIP SHOPPING

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CENTER




                                                                                              CI R S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5'



                                                                                                     A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                4'



                                                                                                 EDEN
                                                                                                                                                                             4'                                 12'     7'
                                                                                                                                                                                               15'       12'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S 98)
                                                                                                                                               5'                           11'    11'
                                                                                                                                                          7'
                                                                                                       BASS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SR 700 (U
                                                                     HOUSES




                                                                                                                            EMERGENCY                                                                                                                   EMERGENCY
                                                                                                                                             SIGNAL                                                                                                          SIGNAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         STOP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FLORIDA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BELLA VISTA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FLORIDA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ST



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W     BELLA VISTA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Y          Y R                                           BELLA VISTA STREET
                                                                                               15'




                                                                                                                                                      R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12'
                                                                                                              R                                                                                                   R                               R
                                                                                               15'




                                                                                                                                                      R                            Y             Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 11'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         130' W/ 50' TAPER
                                                                                               11'
                                                                                        5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12'
                                                                                                                                                                                                               SIGNAL
                                                                                  STOP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                          EMERGENCY



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EMERGENCY
                                                                                                                                                                                          4'                                                            5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12'
                                                                                                                   N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SIGNAL
                                                                                                                                        AV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SPEED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           11'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LIMIT
                                                                                                                  FLORIDA




                                                                                                                                                                                                          15'
                                                                                                                                         FLORIDA




                                                                                       BELLA VISTA            W
                                                                                  ST
                                                                                                                                                               5'                         10' 12'
                                                                                                                                                                                  6'
                                                                                                         ST
                                                                                  W    BELLA VISTA
                                                                                                                       AV




                                                                                                                                         N




                                                                                                                                                                SR 700 (US 98)




                                                                                                                                              ONLY
                                                                              FIRE STATION                                                                                                                                                                                WATSON CLINIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ' TAPER




                                                                                                                                             LANE
                                                                                                                                             RIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             210' W/ 45




                                                                                                                                                                                                     SYMBOLS

                                                                     TREES                                                               GUARDRAIL                                                        CONTROLLER CABINET                                                       PED. SIGNAL HEAD

                                                                     SHRUBS                                                              POWER POLE                                                       VEHICLE DETECTOR LOOP                                                    PED. PUSHBUTTON

                                                                     HEDGE                                                              TELEPHONE POLE                                                                                                                             RR SIGNAL (W/GATE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                          SIGN (1 POST)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DRAINAGE INLET
                                                                     BUILDING                                                           COMBINATION POLE                                                   SIGN (2 POST)
S:\20707174\GRAPHICS\Condition Diagram.dgn




                                                                                                                                         TRAFFIC SIGINAL POLE                                              OVERHEAD SIGN
                                                                     RIGHT OF WAY LINE

                                                                     FENCE                                                               HYDRANT
                                                                                                                                                                                                           TRAFFIC SIGNAL HEAD
                                                        1:17:45 PM




                                                                                             4350 WEST CYPRESS STREET
                                                        Time:




                                                                                                                                                                                       Project            SR 700 (US 98) @ Bella Vista Street                                            Project No.              20707174
                                                                                             SUITE 340
                                                                                                                                                                                        Title                   Lakeland, Polk County
                                                                                             TAMPA, FLORIDA 33607
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Date               01/05/10
                                                                                             PHONE (813) 831-8870
                                             $(USER2)
                                                        2/9/2010




                                                                                             FAX (813) 831-9375                                                                    Drawing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Condition Diagram
                                                                                                                                                                                        Title                                                                                                  Page                  8
                                                                                             WWW.VANUSINC.COM
                                             Name:
Title:


                                                        Date:
                                                           Continuing Services Contract for Traffic Operations
                                                                                     Signal Warrant Analysis
                                                                                         Polk County, Florida




                                    Figure 5: US 98 @ Bella Vista Street - Northbound




                                    Figure 6: US 98 @ Bella Vista Street - Southbound




S:\20707174\REPORTS\Final Rpt.doc                           9                                      February 2010
                                                           Continuing Services Contract for Traffic Operations
                                                                                     Signal Warrant Analysis
                                                                                         Polk County, Florida




                                    Figure 7: US 98 @ Bella Vista Street ­ Eastbound




                                    Figure 8: US 98 @ Bella Vista Street ­ Westbound




S:\20707174\REPORTS\Final Rpt.doc                          10                                      February 2010
                                                Continuing Services Contract for Traffic Operations
                                                                          Signal Warrant Analysis
                                                                              Polk County, Florida


TRAFFIC VOLUME DATA SUMMARY


Twenty-four hour road-tube approach counts were collected by Bayside Engineering, Inc. on
January 12, 2010. The north/south bi-directional volume was 41,175 vehicles per day (vpd) and
the eastbound/westbound volume was 1,901 vpd.


The vehicle, pedestrian, and bicycle TMC was collected on January 14, 2010 by VANUS for the
hours of 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM. Based on the TMCs, the highest peak hours occurred from 12:00
PM to 1:00 PM and from 4:00 PM to 5:00 PM.


During the mid-day peak hour between 12:00 PM and 1:00 PM, the highest turning volumes
were distributed as follows: 127 westbound right turns, 104 southbound left turns, and 47
northbound right turns. During the PM side-street peak hour from 4:00 PM to 5:00 PM, the
highest turning volumes were distributed as follows: 121 westbound right turns, 42 southbound
left turns, and 29 northbound right turns. There were 108 pedestrians and bicyclists observed
crossing the intersection during the eight-hour count period. Only five were observed crossing
US 98.


All counts were collected in 15-minute intervals. The 24-hour count and the TMC data sheets
are included in Appendix A. The TMC summary is included in Table 1.


INTERSECTION DELAY ANALYSIS

An intersection delay study was used to evaluate the total delay for the side-street left-turn and
through movements based on the total number of vehicles during the sampling period (one hour).
Delay at this intersection was studied during the mid-day and evening peak hours as determined
from the TMC. Delay was measured for the eastbound and westbound left-turn and through
movements. The results of the delay studies are shown in Table 2.




S:\20707174\REPORTS\Final Rpt.doc               11                                      February 2010
                                                                                                               Continuing Services Contract for Traffic Operations
                                                                                                                                         Signal Warrant Analysis
                                                                                                                                             Polk County, Florida

                                                                               FLORIDA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                                                                 TABLE 1: TURNING MOVEMENT COUNT SUMMARY

                                                                            SUMMARY OF VEHICLE MOVEMENTS

SECTION        16210                                                            Lakeland
                                                                                   CITY                                                        COUNTY       Polk
STATE ROUTE    SR 700 (US 98)                              INTERSECTING ROUTE   Bella Vista Street
OBSERVER       Vanus, Inc                                                 DATE 1/14/2010                                                   MILEPOST         1.766
WEATHER        Fair                                              ROAD CONDITION Good
REMARKS        None

                                                           FORM COMPLETED BY                KEP



                                                             SR 700 (US 98)                                      2

                                                                 SB ST NAME                              R       T       L

                                                                                                         0       2       1




                                                                               L   0                                                               0        R

                                                                      1        T   1                                                               1        T      1
                                  Bella Vista Street                                                                                                                          Bella Vista Street
                                      EB ST NAME                               R   0                                                               1        L
                                                                                                                                                                                  WB ST NAME




                                                                                                             1       2       1

                                                                                                             L       T       R
                                                                                                                                          SR 700 (US 98)
                                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                                                              NB ST NAME


   TIME                    NORTHBOUND                                          SOUTHBOUND                        TOTAL                        EASTBOUND                                    WESTBOUND                      TOTAL
 BEGIN/END       L         T      R        RTOR   TOT        L             T       R        RTOR      TOT         N/S            L        T        R        RTOR       TOT    L        T        R        RTOR    TOT        E/W
   9 - 10             4   1,016       88      0    1,108      137         1,022         4         0    1,163         2,271            0        1       13          0     14       11        1   102         0      114        128
   10 - 11            8   1,065       50      0    1,123         86       1,056        14         0    1,156         2,279            2        0        9          0     11       15        1   120         0      136        147
   11 - 12            7   1,375       65      0    1,447         73       1,253         9         0    1,335         2,782            2        1        7          0     10       10        4   124         0      138        148
   12 - 1             5   1,437       47      0    1,489      104         1,401        11         0    1,516         3,005            1        1       10          0     12       18        1   127         0      146        158
    1-2               3   1,416       68      0    1,487         94       1,350        12         0    1,456         2,943            4        1        5          0     10       16        0       83      0       99        109
    2-3               5   1,485       53      0    1,543         84       1,379        20         0    1,483         3,026            4        0       15          0     19       14        3   113         0      130        149
    3-4               7   1,653       46      0    1,706         66       1,340        16         0    1,422         3,128            4        0       10          0     14        9        0   101         0      110        124
    4-5               4   1,732       29      0    1,765         42       1,373         8         0    1,423         3,188           2         1        9          0     12       12        2   121         0      135        147
       TOTAL         43 11,179     446        0   11,668      686 10,174               94         0   10,954     22,622              19        5       78          0    102   105          12   891         0     1,008      1,110


  Percentage         0%   96%      4%        0%               6%          93%          1%     0%                                 19%       5%      76%          0%            10%          1%   88%        0%
    Maximum           8   1732        88      0               137         1401         20         0                                  4         1       15          0              18        4   127         0
    Minimum           3   1016        29      0                  42       1022          4         0                                  0         0       5           0              9         0       83      0




S:\20707174\REPORTS\Final Rpt.doc                                                                              12                                                                                               February 2010
                                                      Continuing Services Contract for Traffic Operations
                                                                                Signal Warrant Analysis
                                                                                    Polk County, Florida




                                          Table 2: Intersection Delay

                                                   Average
         Time                                                          Approach            Total Delay
                                               Delay per Vehicle
        Period              Movement                                Volume (vehicles)    (vehicle-hours)
                                               (seconds/vehicle)
                     Eastbound Through/Left          45.00                   3                0.04
      12 ­ 1 PM
                     Westbound Through/Left          46.88                   8                0.10
                     Eastbound Through/Left          66.43                   7                0.13
       4 ­ 5 PM
                     Westbound Through/Left          60.88                   17               0.29


As shown in Table 2, the westbound total delay was slightly higher than the eastbound during the
mid-day study period. The westbound total delay during the mid-day time period was 0.10
vehicle-hours.       The average vehicle delay was 46.88 seconds.                 All of the eastbound and
westbound left/through vehicles stopped. There were eight westbound through and left-turning
vehicles during the study period. The longest queue during the delay count was one vehicle.
During the PM peak hour, the longest westbound queue was two vehicles, with a total delay of
0.29 vehicle-hours and an average delay of 60.88 seconds per vehicle. There were a total of 17
vehicles. All of the westbound vehicles stopped. The delay count data sheets, which reflect this
analysis in detail, are located in Appendix B.


CRASH ANALYSIS

A crash analysis was performed to determine if a fully operational traffic signal would correct
the type of crashes occurring at this intersection. Crash data were obtained from the Polk County
Traffic Engineering Division and the FDOT for the period from January 1, 2006 through
November 30, 2009. There were a total of 55 crashes reported, with 13 occurring in 2006, 19
occurring in 2007, 14 in 2008, and 9 during the first 11 months of 2009. Seventeen of the 55
crashes resulted in injuries.          There were no fatalities.        Three occurred during night-time
conditions and eight occurred on wet pavement (three in 2009). The major type of crashes
reported were as follows: 37 rear end and seven angle crashes. There appears to be a high
number of rear end crashes at this unsignalized intersection. The emergency signal may be
contributing to this crash problem. There were 21 long-form crash reports. Seven of these
referenced the emergency/flashing signal as being a possible cause of the crash. Of the seven

S:\20707174\REPORTS\Final Rpt.doc                     13                                             February 2010
                                                Continuing Services Contract for Traffic Operations
                                                                          Signal Warrant Analysis
                                                                              Polk County, Florida


angle crashes, 1 occurred in 2006, one in 2007, one in 2008, and four during the first 11 months
of 2009. The intersection was being widened during part of the analysis period. The collision
summary form is included as Table 3 and the collision diagrams are included in Appendix C.


SIGNAL WARRANT ANALYSIS


A signal warrant analysis was performed at this intersection in accordance with the MUTCD
2003 and the MUTS. Warrants applicable for use at this location were identified, and each is
presented separately in the following discussion. In performing this analysis, eight individual
signal warrants were used to evaluate a wide variety of intersection characteristics and
conditions.


In addition to the traffic volume data summary and crash analysis previously documented, other
criteria utilized in the signal warrant analysis included the determination of the major and minor
streets, the number of approach lanes, and the minimum volume requirements.               Warrant
Numbers 1, 2, and 3 use specific traffic volume thresholds to evaluate the need for a traffic
signal. These volumes may be reduced to 70 percent of the requirement when the 85th percentile
speed of the major road exceeds 40 mph or when the intersection lies within the built-up area of
an isolated community having a population of less than 10,000. The posted speed limit on US 98
is 45 mph, therefore, the 70 percent criteria apply for Warrant Numbers 1, 2, and 3. This is a
four-legged intersection with a separate left-turn lane westbound. The right-turn volumes were
not utilized for the side-street volumes for the warrant analysis. Therefore, the approach was
analyzed as a one-lane approach with only the left-turning and through volume.


Warrant No. 1 ­ Eight-hour Vehicular Volume
This warrant is comprised of two conditions. Condition A, Minimum Vehicular Volume, is used
when the volume of the intersection traffic is the principal consideration. The minimum hourly
volume required to satisfy this condition is 420 vehicles on the major street and 105 vehicles on
the highest minor street approach for eight hours. These requirements are not met for any of the
eight hours on the minor street. Therefore, Condition A is not satisfied. The 80 percent
requirements are not met for any of the eight hours. Condition B, Interruption of Continuous

S:\20707174\REPORTS\Final Rpt.doc               14                                      February 2010
                                                                  FLORIDA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                                                                          TABLE 3: COLLISION SUMMARY

  SECTION:                  16210                    STATE ROUTE:               SR 700 (US 98)                                COUNTY:           Polk

  INTERSECTING ROUTE:                 Bella Vista Street                                                               M.P.   1.766             DATA BY: KEP

  STUDY PERIOD :                      FROM                   01/01/06                       TO                     11/30/09                            DATE:            01/06/10

                                                                                           SUMMARY
      TYPE                                                  P. D.                                                                      SIDE        PED /
                      FATAL             INJURY                          ANGLE    L-TURN           R-TURN       REAREND                                           BACKING              OTHER
  COLLISION                                            AMOUNT                                                                         SWIPE        BIKE

     TOTAL             #REF!                17                            7          2                  1         37                     2             2                2                 2
                                                       $132,550
    PERCENT            #REF!               31%                           13%        4%                 2%         67%                   4%             4%               4%               4%

                                                            PAVEMENT CONDITION                                                CONTRIBUTING CAUSE
                        DAY              NITE
                                                            WET          DRY         ?           HIT & RUN     F.T.Y.R.W.              C. D.       D.T.S.         VEHICLE             OTHER

     TOTAL                52                3                47           8          0                  5          8                    38             0                0                 4


    PERCENT              95%               5%               85%          15%                           9%         15%                  69%                                               7%

TOTAL VEHICLES ENTERING (ALL APPROACHES) ADT:                                     15,275                      COLLISION RATE:                   3.29                                PER M.V.M.


 FORM                                                                                            PROPERTY                             LIGHT /     WET /                 CONTRIBUTING
             NO.       DATE               DAY              TIME         FATAL    INJURY                          TYPE
   L/S                                                                                           DAMAGE                               DARK         DRY                       CAUSE
    S         1       01/01/06            SUN          11:36 AM           0          0                 $0      REAREND                LIGHT        DRY         C.D.

    L         2       01/04/06            WED          10:11 AM           0          1                 $700    REAREND                LIGHT        DRY         C.D.                HIT & RUN

    S         3       02/06/06            MON              7:38 AM        0          0                 $0      REAREND                LIGHT        DRY         C.D.

    S         4       02/09/06            THU              2:13 PM        0          0                  $0     REAREND                LIGHT        DRY         C.D.

    S         5       02/13/06            MON              4:35 PM        0          0                  $0     REAREND                LIGHT        DRY         C.D.

    S         6       02/16/06            THU          11:33 AM           0          0                  $0     LEFT TURN              LIGHT        DRY         F.T.Y.R.W.

    L         7       03/01/06            WED              4:10 PM        0          1                 $100    BICYCLE                LIGHT        DRY         D.W.S.

    S         8       04/20/06            THU          10:02 AM           0          0                  $0     REAREND                LIGHT        DRY         I.T.

    S         9       07/19/06            WED              9:00 PM        0          1                  $0     REAREND                DARK         DRY         I.L.C.

    S         10      08/03/06            THU          10:41 AM           0          0                  $0      ANGLE                 LIGHT        DRY         F.T.Y.R.W.

    L         11      10/06/06             FRI         11:34 AM           0          1             $3,000     ONE VEHICLE             LIGHT        DRY         OTHER               SIGNAL

    S         12      10/27/06             FRI             3:10 PM        0          0                  $0     REAREND                LIGHT        DRY         C.D.

    S         13      12/14/06            THU              7:12 AM        0          0                  $0     REAREND                LIGHT        WET         C.D.

    L         14      01/15/07            MON              8:00 PM        0          0             $4,000      REAREND                DARK         DRY         HIT & RUN           SIGNAL

    S         15      03/12/07            MON              2:07 PM        0          0                  $0     BACKING                LIGHT        DRY         I.B.

    L         16      06/14/07            THU              5:40 PM        0          0            $12,000      LEFT TURN              LIGHT        DRY         F.T.Y.R.W.          HIT & RUN

    L         17      06/16/07            SAT          11:52 AM           0          2            $10,000     RIGHT TURN              LIGHT        DRY         C.D.                SIGNAL

    S         18      06/23/07            SAT              8:01 AM        0          0                 $0      REAREND                LIGHT        DRY         C.D.

    L         19      06/29/07             FRI             5:23 PM        0          1                 $0     PEDESTRIAN              LIGHT        DRY         C.D.

    S         20      08/20/07            MON              7:57 AM        0          0                  $0     REAREND                LIGHT        DRY         C.D.

    S         21      08/27/07            MON              4:43 PM        0          0                 $0      REAREND                LIGHT        DRY         C.D.

    S         22      09/07/07             FRI         11:42 AM           0          0                 $0      REAREND                LIGHT        DRY         C.D.

    S         23      09/17/07            MON              6:07 PM        0          0                 $0      REAREND                LIGHT        DRY         C.D.

    L         24      09/19/07            WED              3:47 PM        0          1            $10,000      REAREND                LIGHT        DRY         C.D.


S:\20707174\REPORTS\Table 3 COLLSUM                                                               15                                                                                February 2010
 FORM                                                                                           PROPERTY                                LIGHT /        WET /                 CONTRIBUTING
              NO.         DATE           DAY       TIME             FATAL           INJURY                         TYPE
   L/S                                                                                          DAMAGE                                      DARK        DRY                         CAUSE
     S         25        09/21/07        FRI      2:12 PM               0               0             $0        REAREND                     LIGHT       WET         C.D.

     S         26        10/08/07        MON      8:58 AM               0               0              $0       REAREND                     LIGHT       DRY         C.D.

     S         27        10/23/07        TUE     10:17 AM               0               0              $0       REAREND                     LIGHT       DRY         C.D.

     S         28        10/29/07        MON     11:49 AM               0               0              $0       REAREND                     LIGHT       DRY         C.D.

     S         29        11/01/07        THU      9:48 PM               0               0             $0        REAREND                     LIGHT       WET         C.D.

     S         30        11/19/07        MON      10:38 PM              0               0              $0         ANGLE                     DARK        DRY         C.D.

     S         31        11/20/07        TUE      12:29 PM              0               0              $0       BACKING                     LIGHT       DRY         F.T.Y.R.W.

     L         32        11/26/07        MON     11:57 AM               0               3         $5,000        REAREND                     LIGHT       DRY         C.D.

     S         33        01/08/08        TUE      5:14 PM               0               0             $0        REAREND                     LIGHT       DRY         C.D.

     L         34        02/28/08        THU      9:37 AM               0               1         $9,000          ANGLE                     LIGHT       DRY         F.T.Y.R.W.

     S         35        03/10/08        MON     11:19 AM               0               0             $0        REAREND                     LIGHT       DRY         C.D.

     S         36        04/23/08        WED      5:39 PM               0               0              $0       REAREND                     LIGHT       DRY         C.D.

     L         37        05/13/08        TUE      3:09 PM               0               0         $5,000       SIDESWIPE                    LIGHT       DRY         I.L.C.                HIT & RUN

     L         38        05/28/08        WED      5:28 PM               0               1        $10,500        REAREND                     LIGHT       DRY         C.D.                  SIGNAL

     S         39        06/26/08        THU      2:13 PM               0               0              $0       REAREND                     LIGHT       DRY         C.D.

     L         40        07/10/08        THU      4:07 PM               0               2        $11,000        REAREND                     LIGHT       DRY         C.D.                  SIGNAL

     L         41        08/08/08        FRI      3:35 PM               0               1         $3,750        REAREND                     LIGHT       WET         C.D.

     S         42        08/14/08        THU      1:07 PM               0               0              $0      FIXED OBJ                    LIGHT       WET         C.D.

     L         43        08/24/08        SUN      7:39 PM               0               3        $10,500        REAREND                     LIGHT       DRY         C.D.

     L         44        09/16/08        TUE      4:08 PM               0               1        $14,000        REAREND                     LIGHT       DRY         C.D.                  SIGNAL

     L         45        10/31/08        FRI      2:04 PM               0               0         $9,000       SIDESWIPE                    LIGHT       DRY         F.T.Y.R.W.

     L         46        11/16/08        SUN      12:42 PM              0               1         $7,500        REAREND                     LIGHT       WET         C.D.

     L         47        05/06/09        WED      3:53 PM               0               1             $500      REAREND                     LIGHT       DRY         C.D.

     S         48        05/12/09        TUE      6:03 PM               0               0              $0       REAREND                     LIGHT       WET         C.D.

     S         49        05/18/09        MON      8:31 AM               0               0             $0        REAREND                     LIGHT       WET         C.D.

     S         50        07/01/09        WED      3:40 PM               0               0              $0       REAREND                     LIGHT       WET         C.D.

     S         51        07/10/09        FRI      5:20 PM               0               0             $0          ANGLE                     LIGHT       DRY         C.D.

     L         52        07/20/09        MON      12:30 PM              0               2         $6,800          ANGLE                     LIGHT       DRY         F.T.Y.R.W.            SIGNAL

     S         53        08/17/09        MON      2:54 PM               0               0              $0         ANGLE                     LIGHT       DRY         F.T.Y.R.W.

     L         54        10/03/09        SAT      12:55 PM              0               0             $200        ANGLE                     LIGHT       DRY         F.T.Y.R.W.            HIT & RUN

     S         55        11/16/09        MON      7:23 AM               0               0             $0        REAREND                     LIGHT       DRY         C.D.
NOTE:
F.T.Y.R.W.: Fail to Yeild Right-of-Way         F.T.M.E.V.: Fail to maintain Equipment/Vehicle                F.T.C.: Followed Too Closely           D.W.S.: Driving on Wrong Side
C.D.: Careless Driving                         D.R.O.T: Disregarded Other Traffic                            I.L.C.: Improper Lane Change           I.B.: Improper Backing
D.R.T.S: Disregarded Traffic Signal            D.R.T.S.: Disregard Traffic Signal                            D.L.O.C.: Drove Left of Center         D.U.I - Driving Under the Influence
N.I.D.: No Improper Driving                    E.S.S.L: Exceeded Safe Speed Limit                            I.T.: Improper Turn




S:\20707174\REPORTS\Table 3 COLLSUM                                                              16                                                                                        February 2010
                                                  Continuing Services Contract for Traffic Operations
                                                                            Signal Warrant Analysis
                                                                                Polk County, Florida


Traffic, applies to operating conditions where the traffic volume on the major street is so heavy
that traffic on a minor intersection street suffers excessive delay or conflict in entering or
crossing the major street. The maximum side-street delay during the PM peak hour is 66.43
seconds per vehicle. The minimum hourly volume required to satisfy this condition is 630
vehicles on the major street and 53 vehicles on the highest minor street approach for eight hours.
The volume requirements are not met for any of the eight hours for the minor street. Therefore,
this warrant is not satisfied. The 80 percent requirements are met for one of the eight hours for
the minor street.


Warrant No. 2 ­ Four-hour Vehicular Volume
This warrant is used when the volume of intersecting traffic is the principal reason to consider a
traffic signal. This warrant is not applicable.


Warrant No. 3 ­ Peak Hour
This warrant is applicable for intersections of public streets and accesses serving major traffic
generators (such as office complexes, manufacturing plants, industrial complexes, subdivisions,
etc.) where there are high side-street volumes for short durations. This warrant is not applicable.


Warrant No. 4 ­ Pedestrian Volume
This warrant is not applicable since there was minimal pedestrian activity observed.


Warrant No. 5 ­ School Crossing
This warrant is not applicable since there is no school at or near the intersection.


Warrant No. 6 ­ Coordinated Signal System
This warrant is not applicable since progressive movement is not a consideration at this location.


Warrant No. 7 ­ Crash Experience
This warrant is applicable when the severity and frequency of crashes are the principal reasons to
consider a traffic signal. Of the three criteria that must be satisfied for this warrant, none are
met. The number of angle crashes did increase in 2009. However, this warrant is not met.

S:\20707174\REPORTS\Final Rpt.doc                 17                                      February 2010
                                                  Continuing Services Contract for Traffic Operations
                                                                            Signal Warrant Analysis
                                                                                Polk County, Florida


Warrant No. 8 ­ Roadway Network
This warrant is not applicable since it is not the intersection of two major routes.


The Signal Warrant Summary sheets are contained in Table 4.




S:\20707174\REPORTS\Final Rpt.doc                 18                                      February 2010
                                                                         Continuing Services Contract for Traffic Operations
                                                                                                   Signal Warrant Analysis
                                                                                                       Polk County, Florida


                                                     TABLE 4:
                                         TRAFFIC SIGNAL WARRANT SUMMARY
            City:               LAKELAND                                                         Engineer:                                                  VLC
          County:                 POLK                                                               Date:                                             January 12, 2010

     Major Street:                     SR 700 (US 98)                                            Lanes:            2                     Critical Approach Speed:                                 45
     Minor Street:                  BELLA VISTA STREET                                           Lanes:            1


    Volume Level Criteria
       1. Is the critical speed of major street traffic > 70 km/h (40 mph) ?                                                                                           Yes            No
       2. Is the intersection in a built-up area of isolated community of <10,000 population?                                                                          Yes            No

       If Question 1 or 2 above is answered "Yes", then use "70%" volume level                                                                                         70%            100%


    WARRANT 1 - EIGHT-HOUR VEHICULAR VOLUME                                                                                          Applicable:                       Yes            No
       Warrant 1 is satisfied if Condition A or Condition B is "100%" satisfied.                                                      Satisfied:                       Yes            No
       Warrant is also satisfied if both Condition A and Condition B are "80%" satisfied.

       Condition A - Minimum Vehicular Volume                                                                      100% Satisfied:                                     Yes            No
                                                                                                                    80% Satisfied:                                     Yes            No
                                                                              Eight Highest Hours
                                                                                                     9:00-10:00


                                                                                                                       11:00-12:00
                                        Minimum Requirements
                                                                         7:00-8:00


                                                                                     8:00-9:00




                                                                                                                                                          3:00-4:00


                                                                                                                                                                         4:00-5:00


                                                                                                                                                                                     5:00-6:00
                                                                                                                                          12:00-1:00
          (volumes in veh/hr)          (80% Shown in Brackets)
            Approach Lanes                  1       2 or more
             Volume Level             100% 70% 100% 70%
            Both Approaches            500    350   600   420
                                                               2,271 2,279 2,782 3,005 2,943 3,026 3,128 3,188
             on Major Street          (400) (280) (480) (336)
           Highest Approach            150    105   200   140
                                                                 12    16    14    19     16    17   9     14
             on Minor Street          (120) (84) (160) (112)
            Record 8 highest hours and the corresponding volumes in boxes provided. Condition is 100% satisfied if the
            minimum volumes are met for eight hours . Condition is 80% satisfied if parenthetical volumes are met for eight hours.

       Condition B - Interruption of Continuous Traffic                                                                Applicable:                                       Yes                     No
            Condition B is intended for application where the traffic volume is                                   Excessive Delay:                                       Yes                     No
            so heavy that traffic on the minor street suffers excessive delay.                                     100% Satisfied:                                       Yes                     No
                                                                                                                    80% Satisfied:                                       Yes                     No

                                                                              Eight Highest Hours
                                                                                                     9:00-10:00


                                                                                                                       11:00-12:00




                                        Minimum Requirements
                                                                         7:00-8:00


                                                                                     8:00-9:00




                                                                                                                                                          3:00-4:00


                                                                                                                                                                         4:00-5:00


                                                                                                                                                                                     5:00-6:00
                                                                                                                                          12:00-1:00




          (volumes in veh/hr)          (80% Shown in Brackets)
            Approach Lanes                  1       2 or more
             Volume Level             100% 70% 100% 70%
            Both Approaches            750    525   900   630
                                                               2,271 2,279 2,782 3,005 2,943 3,026 3,128 3,188
             on Major Street          (600) (420) (720) (504)
           Highest Approach             75     53   100    70
                                                                 12    16    14    19     16    17   9     14
             on Minor Street           (60)   (42) (80)   (56)
            Record 8 highest hours and the corresponding volumes in boxes provided. Condition is 100% satisfied if the
            minimum volumes are met for eight hours . Condition is 80% satisfied if parenthetical volumes are met for eight hours.

    Source: Revised from NCHRP Report 457




S:\20707174\REPORTS\Final Rpt.doc                                        19                                                                                                              February 2010
                                                                                                           Continuing Services Contract for Traffic Operations
                                                                                                                                     Signal Warrant Analysis
                                                                                                                                         Polk County, Florida


                                                       TABLE 4:
                                           TRAFFIC SIGNAL WARRANT SUMMARY
            City:                LAKELAND                                                                                                  Engineer:                              VLC
          County:                  POLK                                                                                                        Date:                         January 12, 2010

     Major Street:                      SR 700 (US 98)                                                                                    Lanes:         2             Critical Approach Speed:                 45
     Minor Street:                   BELLA VISTA STREET                                                                                   Lanes:         1


    Volume Level Criteria
       1. Is the critical speed of major street traffic > 70 km/h (40 mph) ?                                                                                                             Yes                No
       2. Is the intersection in a built-up area of isolated community of <10,000 population?                                                                                            Yes                No

       If Question 1 or 2 above is answered "Yes", then use "70%" volume level                                                                                                           70%                100%


    WARRANT 2 - FOUR-HOUR VEHICULAR VOLUME                                                                                                                      Applicable:              Yes                No
        If all four points lie above the appropriate line, then the warrant is satisfied.                                                                        Satisfied:              Yes                No

                                                                                          Plot four volume combinations on the applicable figure below.


                                                                                             FIGURE 4C-1: Criteria for "100%" Volume Level
                                                                                 700


                                                                                 600
                                                    HIGH VOLUME APPROACH - VPH




                                                                                                                                      2 OR MORE LANES & 2 OR MORE LANES
                                                                                 500
                                                           MINOR STREET




                                                                                 400
                                                                                                                                                             2 OR MORE LANES & 1 LANE
                                                                                 300

                                                                                                                                                                         1 LANE & 1 LANE
                                                                                 200


      Four             Volumes                                                   100                                                                                                                          *115
                                                                                                                                                                                                               *80
     Highest       Major    Minor
      Hours        Street   Street                                                 0
                                                                                    300    400            500                       600     700     800          900     1000     1100       1200     1300
                                                                                                                        MAJOR STREET - TOTAL OF BOTH APPROACHES - VPH


                                                  * Note: 115 vph applies as the lower threshold volume for a minor street approach with two or more lanes and
                                                          80 vph applies as the lower threshold volume threshold for a minor street approach with one lane.


                                                                                             FIGURE 4C-2: Criteria for "70%" Volume Level
                                                                                                     (Community Less than 10,000 population or above 70 km/hr (40 mph) on Major Street)

                                                                                                                              400
                                                                                                 HIGH VOLUME APPROACH - VPH




                                                                                                                                                          2 OR MORE LANES & 2 OR MORE LANES

                                                                                                                              300
                                                                                                        MINOR STREET




                                                                                                                                                                  2 OR MORE LANES & 1 LANE

                                                                                                                              200

                                                                                                                                                                                   1 LANE & 1 LANE

                                                                                                                              100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 *80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 *60

                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                 200       300     400         500     600      700        800       900     1000
                                                                                                                                          MAJOR STREET - TOTAL OF BOTH APPROACHES - VPH



                                                  * Note: 80 vph applies as the lower threshold volume for a minor street approach with two or more lanes and
                                                          60 vph applies as the lower threshold volume threshold for a minor street approach with one lane.

    Source: Revised from NCHRP Report 457




S:\20707174\REPORTS\Final Rpt.doc                                                                          20                                                                                              February 2010
                                                                                                    Continuing Services Contract for Traffic Operations
                                                                                                                              Signal Warrant Analysis
                                                                                                                                  Polk County, Florida


                                                      TABLE 4:
                                          TRAFFIC SIGNAL WARRANT SUMMARY
             City:               LAKELAND                                                                            Engineer:                           VLC
           County:                 POLK                                                                                  Date:                      January 12, 2010

     Major Street:                      SR 700 (US 98)                                                               Lanes:        2           Critical Approach Speed:                 45
     Minor Street:                   BELLA VISTA STREET                                                              Lanes:        1


    Volume Level Criteria
       1. Is the critical speed of major street traffic > 70 km/h (40 mph) ?                                                                                    Yes              No
       2. Is the intersection in a built-up area of isolated community of <10,000 population?                                                                   Yes              No

        If Question 1 or 2 above is answered "Yes", then use "70%" volume level                                                                                  70%             100%


    WARRANT 3 - PEAK HOUR                                                                                                                Applicable:            Yes              No
        If all three criteria are fullfilled or the plotted point lies above the appropriate line,           Satisfied:         Yes                                              No
        then the warrant is satisfed.
                                                                           Plot volume combination on the applicable figure below.
         Unusual condition justifying
                 use of warrant:                               600
                                                                            FIGURE 4C-3: Criteria for "100%" Volume Level

                                                                                                                        2 OR MORE LANES & 2 OR MORE LANES
                                                   HIGH VOLUME APPROACH - VPH




                                                                                500


    Record hour when criteria are fulfilled                                     400
                                                          MINOR STREET




    and the corresponding delay or volume                                                                                                2 OR MORE LANES & 1 LANE

    in boxes provided.
                                                                                300
                                                                                                                                                             1 LANE & 1 LANE
                Peak Hour
                                                                                200
                                                                                                                                                                                   *150

                                                                                                                                                                                   *100
                                                                                100

      Criteria (7:00 PM - 8:00 PM)
                                                                                  0
       1. Delay on Minor Approach                                                  400    500     600    700   800   900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600 1700 1800
             *(vehicle-hours)
                                                                                                        MAJOR STREET - TOTAL OF BOTH APPROACHES - VPH
      Approach Lanes        1        2
       Delay Criteria*     4.0      5.0          * Note: 150 vph applies as the lower threshold volume for a minor street approach with two or more lanes and
            Delay*                                       100 vph applies as the lower threshold volume threshold for a minor street approach with one lane.
     Fulfilled?:  Yes          No
                                                                                                FIGURE 4C-4: Criteria for "70%" Volume Level
                                                                                         (Community Less than 10,000 population or above 70 km/hr (40 mph) on Major Street)


      2. Volume on Minor Approach                                               500
                                                                                                                              2 OR MORE LANES & 2 OR MORE LANES
           *(vehicles per hour)
                                                   HIGH VOLUME APPROACH - VPH




      Approach Lanes        1        2                                          400
                                                                                                                                2 OR MORE LANES & 1 LANE
      Volume Criteria*     100      150
                                                          MINOR STREET




           Volume*                                                              300
     Fulfilled?:  Yes          No                                                                                                                  1 LANE & 1 LANE
                                                                                200


         3. Total Entering Volume                                               100
                                                                                                                                                                                        *100
            *(vehicles per hour)                                                                                                                                                        *75
    No. of Approaches       3        4                                            0
     Volume Criteria*      650      800                                           300       400         500    600      700        800      900      1000      1100      1200    1300
                                                                                                          MAJOR STREET - TOTAL OF BOTH APPROACHES - VPH
          Volume*
    Fulfilled?:  Yes           No
                                                 * Note: 100 vph applies as the lower threshold volume for a minor street approach with two or more lanes and
                                                         75 vph applies as the lower threshold volume threshold for a minor street approach with one lane.




S:\20707174\REPORTS\Final Rpt.doc                                                                   21                                                                          February 2010
                                                                           Continuing Services Contract for Traffic Operations
                                                                                                     Signal Warrant Analysis
                                                                                                         Polk County, Florida


                                                      TABLE 4:
                                          TRAFFIC SIGNAL WARRANT SUMMARY
             City:               LAKELAND                                                Engineer:                    VLC
           County:                 POLK                                                      Date:               January 12, 2010

     Major Street:                       SR 700 (US 98)                                Lanes:        2       Critical Approach Speed:    45
     Minor Street:                    BELLA VISTA STREET                               Lanes:        1


    WARRANT 4 - PEDESTRIAN VOLUME                                                                        Applicable:        Yes      No
       Record hours where criteria are fulfilled and the corresponding volume or gap                      Satisfied:        Yes      No
       frequency in the boxes provided. The warrant is satisfied if condition 1 or 2 is fulfilled
       and condition 3 is fulfilled.

                                                                                                    Pedestrian      Pedestrian    Fulfilled?
                           Criteria                                        Hour                      Volume           Gaps        Yes     No
     1. Pedestrian volume crossing the major street is                      7-8
        100 ped/hr or more for each of any four hours                      9-10
        and there are less than 60 gaps per hour in the                    11-12
        major street traffic stream of adequate length.                    12-1
     2. Pedestrian volume crossing the major street is
        190 ped/hr or more for any one hour and there
                                                                            7-8
        are less than 60 gaps per hour in the major street
        traffic stream of adequate length.
     3. The nearest traffic signal along the major street is located more than 90 m (300 ft) away, or the nearest signal
        is within 90 m (300 ft) but the proposed traffic signal will not restrict the progressive movement of traffic.


    WARRANT 5 - SCHOOL CROSSING                                                                          Applicable:        Yes      No
       Record hours where criteria are fulfilled and the corresponding volume or gap                      Satisfied:        Yes      No
       frequency in the boxes provided. The warrant is satisfied if all three of the criteria
       are fulfilled.

                                                                                                                                  Fulfilled?
                                                              Criteria                                                            Yes     No
     1. There are a minimum of 20 students crossing the major street                      Students:     Hour:
        during the highest crossing hour.
     2. There are fewer adequate gaps in the major street traffic stream during the period              Minutes:       Gaps:
        when the children are using the crossing than the number of minutes in the same period.
     3. The nearest traffic signal along the major street is located more than 90 m (300 ft) away, or the nearest signal
        is within 90 m (300 ft) but the proposed traffic signal will not restrict the progressive movement of traffic.


    WARRANT 6 - COORDINATED SIGNAL SYSTEM                                                                Applicable:        Yes      No
       Indicate if the criteria are fulfilled in the boxes provided. The warrant is                       Satisfied:        Yes      No
       satisfied if either criterion is fulfilled. This warrant should not be applied when the
       resulting signal spacing would be less than 300 m (1,000 ft).

                                                                                                                                  Fulfilled?
                                                              Criteria                                                            Yes     No
     1. On a one-way street or a street that has traffic predominately in one direction, the adjacent signals are
        so far apart that they do not provide the necessary degree of vehicle platooning.
     2. On a two-way street, adjacent signals do not provide the necessary degree of platooning, and
        the proposed and adjacent signals will collectively provide a progressive operation.

    Source: Revised from NCHRP Report 457




S:\20707174\REPORTS\Final Rpt.doc                                          22                                                        February 2010
                                                                          Continuing Services Contract for Traffic Operations
                                                                                                    Signal Warrant Analysis
                                                                                                        Polk County, Florida


                                                      TABLE 4:
                                          TRAFFIC SIGNAL WARRANT SUMMARY
            City:               LAKELAND                                                Engineer:                        VLC
          County:                 POLK                                                      Date:                   January 12, 2010

     Major Street:                      SR 700 (US 98)                                 Lanes:        2           Critical Approach Speed:   45
     Minor Street:                   BELLA VISTA STREET                                Lanes:        1


    WARRANT 7 - CRASH EXPERIENCE                                                                          Applicable:       Yes         No
       Record hours where criteria are fulfilled, the corresponding volume, and other                      Satisfied:       Yes         No
       information in the boxes provided. The warrant is satisfied if all three of the criteria
       are fulfilled.

                                                                                                                       Met?         Fulfilled?
                             Criteria                                           Hour                     Volume      Yes   No       Yes     No
     1. One of the Warrant 1, Condition A (80% satisfied)                                                                      
        warrants      Warrant 1, Condition B (80% satisfied)                                                                   
        to the right       Warrant 4, Pedestrian Volume
        is met.           at 80% of volume requirements:
                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                               
                           80 ped/hr for four (4) hours or
                             152 ped/hr for one (1) hour
     2. Adequate trial of other remedial measure
                                                                 Measure tried:                                                             
        has failed to reduce crash frequency.
     3. Five or more reported crashes, of types susceptible to
                                                                            Number of crashes per 12 months:               1.0              
        correction by signal, have occurred within a 12-mo. period.


    WARRANT 8 - ROADWAY NETWORK                                                                           Applicable:       Yes         No
       Record hours where criteria are fulfilled, and the corresponding volume or other                    Satisfied:       Yes         No
       information in the boxes provided. The warrant is satisfied if at least one of the criteria
       is fulfilled and if all intersecting routes have one or more of the characteristics listed.

                                                                                                                       Met?         Fulfilled?
                                                     Criteria                                                        Yes   No       Yes     No
     1. Both of        a. Total entering volume of at least 1,000 veh/hr             Entering Volume:
        the criteria      during a typical weekday peak hour.
        to the right b. Five-year projected volumes that satisfy          Warrant:      1       2            3
        are met.          one or more of Warrants 1, 2, or 3.            Satisfied?:
     2. Total entering volume at least
                                                                                                                        Hour
        1,000 veh/hr for each of any 5 hrs
        of a non-normal business day
                                                                                                                        Volume
        (Sat. or Sun.)

                                                                                                                       Met?         Fulfilled?
                                     Characteristics of Major Routes                                                 Yes   No       Yes     No
     1. Part of the street or highway system that serves as the principal roadway                 Major Street:
        network for through traffic flow.                                                         Minor Street:
     2. Rural or suburban highway outside of, entering, or traversing a city.                     Major Street:
                                                                                                  Minor Street:
     3. Appears as a major route on an official plan.                                             Major Street:
                                                                                                  Minor Street:



    CONCLUSIONS                                                                           Warrants Satisfied:

    Remarks:


    Source: Revised from NCHRP Report 457




S:\20707174\REPORTS\Final Rpt.doc                                         23                                                           February 2010
                                                     Continuing Services Contract for Traffic Operations
                                                                               Signal Warrant Analysis
                                                                                   Polk County, Florida


                                             SECTION FOUR
                                         RECOMMENDATIONS
                                    SR 700 (US 98) at Bella Vista Street
                                     Section No. 16210-000, M.P. 1.766

Based on the documentation provided in this report, VANUS determined that none of the traffic
signal warrants are met at the intersection. Therefore, a traffic signal is not recommended at this
intersection. The intersection was improved during the analysis period. Since the completion of
improvements, there has been an increase in the number of angle crashes.


It is recommended that the crash history be reviewed at the end of 2010 to determine if there has
been a change in the number of angle crashes since the opening of the medical clinic. If the
pattern of angle crashes continues, the following changes are recommended:


·   The side-street approaches be signed as RIGHT TURN ONLY along with pavement arrows.
·   The westbound left-turn lane be eliminated by striping out the lane.
·   The eastbound approach be striped to channelized the motorist into a right-turn movement.


According to the 2003 MUTCD, the advanced EMERGENCY VEHICLE signs on US 98 need
supplemental EMERGENCY SIGNAL AHEAD plaques. In addition, based on the number of
rear-end crashes occurring on US 98 at this intersection, the following changes are also
recommended:


·   Install larger EMERGENCY VEHICLE signs on US 98.
·   Add an additional EMERGENCY VEHICLE sign southbound in the median.
·   Install flashing yellow beacons interconnected with the traffic signal controller assembly on
    the advanced warning signs on the outside shoulder of US 98.




S:\20707174\REPORTS\Final Rpt.doc                    24                                      February 2010
APPENDICES
   APPENDIX A
COUNT DATA SHEETS
                                                                                  4350 W. Cypress Street
SR 700 (US 98) @ Bella Vista Street                                                     Suite 340                                             File Name                 : US98-Bella_NHD-TTP
Lakeland, Florida                                                                  Tampa, Florida 33607                                       Site Code                 : 20707174
Polk County                                                                                                                                   Start Date                : 1/12/2010
                                                                                                                                              Page No                   :1


                                                                   Groups Printed- Automobiles - Heavy Vehicles - Uturn
                             SR 700 (US 98)                           Bella Vista Street             SR 700 (US 98)                                                     Bella Vista Street
                              Southbound                                 Westbound                     Northbound                                                          Eastbound
Start Time     Left-Uturn   Thru Right     RTOR   App. Total   Left-Uturn   Thru Right   RTOR   App. Total   Left-Uturn   Thru Right   RTOR   App. Total   Left-Uturn   Thru Right   RTOR    App. Total   Int. Total
 09:00 AM        35 288               1      0      324             2         0    15      0        17              0     211    19      0      230               0       0     5      0           5        576
 09:15 AM        36 251               1      0      288             1         0    21      0        22              3     249    24      0      276               0       0     3      0           3        589
 09:30 AM        30 245               2      0      277             3         0    33      0        36              1     270    28      0      299               0       1     3      0           4        616
 09:45 AM        36 238               0      0      274             5         1    33      0        39              0     286    17      0      303               0       0     2      0           2        618
     Total      137 1022              4      0     1163            11         1   102      0       114              4     1016   88      0     1108               0       1    13      0          14       2399

 10:00 AM          21       248       4      0      273             6         0    33      0        39              1     282    16      0      299               1       0      3     0           4        615
 10:15 AM          24       271       5      0      300             5         0    29      0        34              5     251    13      0      269               0       0      2     0           2        605
 10:30 AM          20       256       2      0      278             2         0    30      0        32              0     258    11      0      269               0       0      2     0           2        581
 10:45 AM          21       281       3      0      305             2         1    28      0        31              2     274    10      0      286               1       0      2     0           3        625
     Total         86       1056     14      0     1156            15         1   120      0       136              8     1065   50      0     1123               2       0      9     0          11       2426

 11:00 AM          18       232       2      0      252             4         0    29      0        33              3     330    17      0      350               1       1      1     0           3        638
 11:15 AM          21       351       3      0      375             4         1    29      0        34              2     369    25      0      396               0       0      4     0           4        809
 11:30 AM          17       335       2      0      354             0         3    27      0        30              1     329    13      0      343               1       0      1     0           2        729
 11:45 AM          17       335       2      0      354             2         0    39      0        41              1     347    10      0      358               0       0      1     0           1        754
     Total         73       1253      9      0     1335            10         4   124      0       138              7     1375   65      0     1447               2       1      7     0          10       2930

 12:00 PM        14 316               3      0      333             6         0    44      0        50              1     369     7      0      377               0       1     4      0           5        765
 12:15 PM        20 355               3      0      378             4         1    28      0        33              1     351    17      0      369               1       0     2      0           3        783
 12:30 PM        25 369               2      0      396             2         0    28      0        30              3     340    11      0      354               0       0     2      0           2        782
 12:45 PM        45 361               3      0      409             6         0    27      0        33              0     377    12      0      389               0       0     2      0           2        833
     Total      104 1401             11      0     1516            18         1   127      0       146              5     1437   47      0     1489               1       1    10      0          12       3163

 01:00 PM          20       345       1      0      366             4         0    23      0         27             2     332    13      0      347               2       0      3     0           5        745
 01:15 PM          23       332       7      0      362             2         0    19      0         21             1     353    19      0      373               1       0      1     0           2        758
 01:30 PM          27       314       2      0      343             6         0    16      0         22             0     367    22      0      389               0       0      0     0           0        754
 01:45 PM          24       359       2      0      385             4         0    25      0         29             0     364    14      0      378               1       1      1     0           3        795
     Total         94       1350     12      0     1456            16         0    83      0         99             3     1416   68      0     1487               4       1      5     0          10       3052

 02:00 PM          26       306      13      0      345             3         1    27      0        31              1     345    13      0      359               1       0     5      0           6        741
 02:15 PM          20       351       2      0      373             3         0    29      0        32              1     328    12      0      341               2       0     0      0           2        748
 02:30 PM          14       362       4      0      380             6         2    27      0        35              1     408    11      0      420               1       0     4      0           5        840
 02:45 PM          24       360       1      0      385             2         0    30      0        32              2     404    17      0      423               0       0     6      0           6        846
     Total         84       1379     20      0     1483            14         3   113      0       130              5     1485   53      0     1543               4       0    15      0          19       3175

 03:00 PM          10       332       3      0      345               1       0    24      0        25              2     438    10      0      450               0       0     6      0           6        826
 03:15 PM          18       350       6      0      374               2       0    21      0        23              2     403    16      0      421               1       0     2      0           3        821
 03:30 PM          19       319       2      0      340               3       0    25      0        28              2     413    10      0      425               1       0     0      0           1        794
 03:45 PM          19       339       5      0      363               3       0    31      0        34              1     399    10      0      410               2       0     2      0           4        811
     Total         66       1340     16      0     1422               9       0   101      0       110              7     1653   46      0     1706               4       0    10      0          14       3252

 04:00 PM           6       344       2      0      352             6         0    32      0        38              1     443     6      0      450               0       0      2     0           2        842
 04:15 PM          19       335       1      0      355             2         0    24      0        26              3     431     7      0      441               1       0      4     0           5        827
 04:30 PM           8       359       2      0      369             2         1    36      0        39              0     451     6      0      457               1       1      1     0           3        868
 04:45 PM           9       335       3      0      347             2         1    29      0        32              0     407    10      0      417               0       0      2     0           2        798
     Total         42       1373      8      0     1423            12         2   121      0       135              4     1732   29      0     1765               2       1      9     0          12       3335

 Grand Total     686        10174     94     0 10954 105    12 891                         0     1008           43 11179 446             0 11668   19                      5   78      0        102 23732
 Apprch %        6.3        92.9     0.9     0       10.4  1.2 88.4                        0                   0.4 95.8  3.8             0       18.6                    4.9 76.5      0
  Total %        2.9        42.9     0.4     0  46.2  0.4  0.1  3.8                        0      4.2          0.2 47.1  1.9             0  49.2  0.1                      0  0.3      0        0.4
Automobiles 683             9950      93     0 10726 104    11 888                         0     1003           40 10933 443             0 11416   17                      4   75      0         96 23241
% Automobiles 99.6          97.8    98.9     0  97.9   99 91.7 99.7                        0     99.5           93 97.8 99.3             0  97.8 89.5                     80 96.2      0       94.1  97.9
Heavy Vehicles     3         224       1     0   228    1    1    3                        0        5            3 246     3             0   252    2                      1    3      0          6   491
% Heavy Vehicles 0.4         2.2     1.1     0   2.1    1  8.3  0.3                        0      0.5            7  2.2  0.7             0   2.2 10.5                     20  3.8      0        5.9   2.1
      Uturn        0           0       0     0     0    0    0    0                        0        0            0     0   0             0     0    0                      0    0      0          0     0
   % Uturn         0           0       0     0     0    0    0    0                        0        0            0     0   0             0     0    0                      0    0      0          0     0
                                                                            4350 W. Cypress Street
SR 700 (US 98) @ Bella Vista Street                                               Suite 340                      File Name                       : US98-Bella_NHD-TTP
Lakeland, Florida                                                            Tampa, Florida 33607                Site Code                       : 20707174
Polk County                                                                                                      Start Date                      : 1/12/2010
                                                                                                                 Page No                         :2

                                                                                     SR 700 (US 98)
                                                                                 Out       In     Total
                                                                                11838    10726    22564
                                                                                  251       228     479
                                                                                     0        0       0
                                                                                12089    10954    23043


                                                                                  93 9950      683    0
                                                                                   1   224       3    0
                                                                                   0     0       0    0
                                                                                  94 10174     686    0
                                                                               Right Thru Left-Uturn
                                                                                                   RTOR
                                               RTOR Right Thru Left-Uturn
                                        240


                                        251
                                          11
                                           0



                                                                     17


                                                                     19
                                                                      2
                                                                      0




                                                                                                          Right Thru Left-Uturn
                                       Total




                                                                                                            891


                                                                                                            888


                                                                                                                                     1137


                                                                                                                                     1130
                                                                                                                                     Out
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              3




                                                                                                                                        Bella Vista Street
                    Bella Vista Street




                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                         7
                                                                                         North
                                                              4
                                                              1
                                                              0
                                                              5
                              102
                               96
                                6
                                0




                                                                                  1/12/2010 09:00 AM




                                                                                                                  12


                                                                                                                  11
                             In




                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                  1/12/2010 04:45 PM




                                                                                                                                               1008


                                                                                                                                               1003
                                                                                                                                                In
                                                       75


                                                       78
                                                        3
                                                        0




                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                   5
                                                                                                                          105


                                                                                                                          104
                                                                                  Automobiles




                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                            1
                   144


                   149
                      5
                      0




                                                                                  Heavy Vehicles
                  Out




                                                                                                                                                         Total
                                                                                                                              RTOR
                                                                                  Uturn
                                                  0
                                                  0
                                                  0
                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                         2145


                                                                                                                                                         2133
                                                                                                                                                            12
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                              Left-UturnThru Right RTOR
                                                                                    40 10933   443    0
                                                                                     3   246     3    0
                                                                                     0      0    0    0
                                                                                    43 11179   446    0


                                                                                10129    11416    21545
                                                                                  228       252     480
                                                                                     0        0       0
                                                                                10357    11668    22025
                                                                                 Out       In     Total
                                                                                     SR 700 (US 98)
                                                                                                                              4350 W. Cypress Street
SR 700 (US 98) @ Bella Vista Street                                                                                                 Suite 340                                                 File Name                                : US98-Bella_NHD-TTP
Lakeland, Florida                                                                                                              Tampa, Florida 33607                                           Site Code                                : 20707174
Polk County                                                                                                                                                                                   Start Date                               : 1/12/2010
                                                                                                                                                                                              Page No                                  :3


                             SR 700 (US 98)                                                                            Bella Vista Street                                SR 700 (US 98)                                                Bella Vista Street
                              Southbound                                                                                 Westbound                                        Northbound                                                      Eastbound
 Start Time    Left-Uturn   Thru Right                    RTOR                    App. Total              Left-Uturn   Thru Right     RTOR    App. Total   Left-Uturn   Thru Right     RTOR   App. Total    Left-Uturn                 Thru Right                        RTOR   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 09:00 AM to 01:00 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 12:00 PM
  12:00 PM     14 316           3    0      333     6  0                                                                       44         0        50             1     369       7      0       377                             0            1                      4     0           5        765
  12:15 PM     20 355          3     0      378     4  1                                                                       28         0       33              1     351      17      0       369                             1            0                      2     0          3         783
  12:30 PM     25 369          2     0      396     2  0                                                                       28         0       30              3     340      11      0       354                             0            0                      2     0          2         782
  12:45 PM     45 361          3     0      409     6  0                                                                       27         0       33              0     377      12      0       389                             0            0                      2     0          2          833
 Total Volume 104 1401        11     0 1516        18  1                                                                      127         0      146              5     1437     47      0     1489                              1            1                     10     0         12       3163
% App. Total     6.9        92.4    0.7                           0                                        12.3         0.7     87        0                  0.3         96.5    3.2      0                      8.3                    8.3                    83.3         0
       PHF      .578        .949   .917                        .000                                .927    .750        .250   .722     .000      .730       .417         .953   .691   .000      .957           .250                   .250                    .625      .000      .600         .949

                                                                                                                                            SR 700 (US 98)
                                                                                                                                        Out       In     Total
                                                                                                                                        1565     1516      3081


                                                                                                                                         11 1401      104    0
                                                                                                                                      Right Thru Left-Uturn
                                                                                                                                                          RTOR




                                                                                                                                     Peak Hour Data
                                                                      RTOR Right Thru Left-Uturn
                                                          29


                                                                                             1




                                                                                                                                                                                                           Right Thru Left-Uturn
                                                       Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                             127



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         152

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Bella Vista Street
                                    Bella Vista Street




                                                                                                                                                  North
                                                                                     1
                                                12
                                              In




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   146
                                                                                                                                      Peak Hour Begins at 12:00 PM
                                                                              10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            18




                                                                                                                                      Automobiles
                                     17




                                                                                                                                      Heavy Vehicles
                                   Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RTOR
                                                                         0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              298




                                                                                                                                      Uturn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                                                                     Left-Uturn Thru Right RTOR
                                                                                                                                            5 1437      47    0


                                                                                                                                        1429     1489      2918
                                                                                                                                        Out       In     Total
                                                                                                                                            SR 700 (US 98)
                                                                                                                    4350 W. Cypress Street
SR 700 (US 98) @ Bella Vista Street                                                                                       Suite 340                                                 File Name                                : US98-Bella_NHD-TTP
Lakeland, Florida                                                                                                    Tampa, Florida 33607                                           Site Code                                : 20707174
Polk County                                                                                                                                                                         Start Date                               : 1/12/2010
                                                                                                                                                                                    Page No                                  :4

                       SR 700 (US 98)                          Bella Vista Street                                                                              SR 700 (US 98)                                                Bella Vista Street
                        Southbound                                Westbound                                                                                     Northbound                                                      Eastbound
                       Thr Rig                                  Thr                                                                                            Thr                                                            Thr
 Start Time Left-Uturn              RTOR App. Total Left-Uturn       Right RTOR                                                     App. Total   Left-Uturn        Right RTOR       App. Total    Left-Uturn                       Right RTOR                        App. Total   Int. Total
                         u     ht                                 u                                                                                              u                                                              u
Peak Hour Analysis From 01:15 PM to 04:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 03:45 PM
  03:45 PM       19 339         5     0     363            3      0    31     0                                                          34             1     399      10      0       410                             2            0                     2     0           4        811
  04:00 PM         6 344        2     0     352            6      0    32     0                                                          38             1     443       6      0       450                             0            0                     2     0           2        842
  04:15 PM       19 335         1     0     355            2      0    24     0                                                          26             3     431       7      0       441                             1            0                     4     0           5        827
  04:30 PM         8 359        2     0     369            2      1    36     0                                                          39             0     451       6      0       457                             1            1                     1     0          3          868
 Total Volume    52 1377      10      0 1439             13       1 123       0                                                        137              5     1724     29      0     1758                              4            1                     9     0         14       3348
 % App. Total    3.6   95.7    0.7                            0                                        9.5    0.7   89.8        0                  0.3         98.1    1.6      0                     28.6                    7.1                    64.3        0
        PHF     .684   .959   .500                         .000                                .975   .542   .250   .854     .000      .878       .417         .956   .725   .000      .962           .500                   .250                    .563     .000      .700         .964

                                                                                                                                  SR 700 (US 98)
                                                                                                                              Out       In     Total
                                                                                                                              1851     1439      3290


                                                                                                                               10 1377       52    0
                                                                                                                            Right Thru Left-Uturn
                                                                                                                                                RTOR




                                                                                                                           Peak Hour Data
                                                                  RTOR Right Thru Left-Uturn
                                                      30


                                                                                         4




                                                                                                                                                                                                 Right Thru Left-Uturn
                                                   Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                   123



                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Out
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                82

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Bella Vista Street
                                Bella Vista Street




                                                                                                                                        North
                                                                                 1
                                            14
                                          In




                                                                                                                                                                                                           1



                                                                                                                            Peak Hour Begins at 03:45 PM                                                                                 In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          137
                                                                           9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  13




                                                                                                                            Automobiles
                                 16




                                                                                                                            Heavy Vehicles
                               Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RTOR
                                                                     0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    219




                                                                                                                            Uturn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                                           Left-Uturn Thru Right RTOR
                                                                                                                                  5 1724      29    0


                                                                                                                              1399     1758      3157
                                                                                                                              Out       In     Total
                                                                                                                                  SR 700 (US 98)
                                                                   4350 W. Cypress Street
SR 700 (US 98) @ Bella Vista Street                                      Suite 340                             File Name          : US98-Bella_NHD-TTP
Lakeland, Florida                                                   Tampa, Florida 33607                       Site Code          : 20707174
Polk County                                                                                                    Start Date         : 1/12/2010
                                                                                                               Page No            :1


                                                                     Groups Printed- Automobiles
                      SR 700 (US 98)                         Bella Vista Street               SR 700 (US 98)                      Bella Vista Street
                       Southbound                               Westbound                       Northbound                           Eastbound
Start Time     Left Thru Right    RTOR   App. Total   Left   Thru Right RTOR App. Total Left Thru Right RTOR   App. Total   Left Thru Right    RTOR    App. Total   Int. Total
 09:00 AM       35 282      1       0      318          2       0    15     0      17     0 208      19    0     227          0     0    4       0           4        566
 09:15 AM       36 238      1       0      275          1       0    21     0      22     3 242      24    0     269          0     0    3       0           3        569
 09:30 AM       29 237      2       0      268          3       0    33     0      36     1 265      28    0     294          0     1    3       0           4        602
 09:45 AM       36 233      0       0      269          5       1    33     0      39     0 283      17    0     300          0     0    2       0           2        610
     Total     136 990      4       0     1130         11       1 102       0   114       4 998      88    0    1090          0     1   12       0          13       2347

 10:00 AM       21   234     4      0      259          6      0    33     0     39     1   268    16     0      285          1     0      2     0            3       586
 10:15 AM       24   264     5      0      293          5      0    29     0     34     5   237    12     0      254          0     0      1     0            1       582
 10:30 AM       20   251     2      0      273          2      0    29     0     31     0   252    11     0      263          0     0      2     0            2       569
 10:45 AM       21   277     3      0      301          2      1    28     0     31     2   261    10     0      273          1     0      2     0            3       608
     Total      86   1026   14      0     1126         15      1   119     0    135     8   1018   49     0     1075          2     0      7     0            9      2345

 11:00 AM       18   224     2      0      244          3      0    29     0     32     3   320    17     0      340          1     0      1     0            2       618
 11:15 AM       21   339     3      0      363          4      0    29     0     33     1   359    25     0      385          0     0      4     0            4       785
 11:30 AM       17   331     2      0      350          0      3    27     0     30     1   318    13     0      332          0     0      1     0            1       713
 11:45 AM       17   328     2      0      347          2      0    39     0     41     1   336    10     0      347          0     0      1     0            1       736
     Total      73   1222    9      0     1304          9      3   124     0    136     6   1333   65     0     1404          1     0      7     0            8      2852

 12:00 PM       14 310       3      0      327          6      0    44     0     50     1   363     7     0      371          0     1     4      0           5        753
 12:15 PM       20 345       3      0      368          4      1    28     0     33     1   346    17     0      364          1     0     2      0           3        768
 12:30 PM       25 360       2      0      387          2      0    28     0     30     3   336    11     0      350          0     0     2      0           2        769
 12:45 PM       45 352       3      0      400          6      0    27     0     33     0   367    12     0      379          0     0     2      0           2        814
     Total     104 1367     11      0     1482         18      1   127     0    146     5   1412   47     0     1464          1     1    10      0          12       3104

 01:00 PM       20   336     1      0      357          4      0    23     0     27     2   326    13     0      341          2     0      3     0           5        730
 01:15 PM       23   330     7      0      360          2      0    19     0     21     1   345    19     0      365          1     0      1     0           2        748
 01:30 PM       27   305     2      0      334          6      0    16     0     22     0   361    20     0      381          0     0      0     0           0        737
 01:45 PM       24   354     2      0      380          4      0    25     0     29     0   360    14     0      374          1     1      1     0           3        786
     Total      94   1325   12      0     1431         16      0    83     0     99     3   1392   66     0     1461          4     1      5     0          10       3001

 02:00 PM       25   298    13      0      336          3      1    27     0     31     1   337    13     0      351          1     0     5      0           6        724
 02:15 PM       20   342     2      0      364          3      0    29     0     32     1   321    12     0      334          2     0     0      0           2        732
 02:30 PM       13   355     4      0      372          6      2    25     0     33     1   395    11     0      407          1     0     4      0           5        817
 02:45 PM       24   357     1      0      382          2      0    30     0     32     1   396    17     0      414          0     0     6      0           6        834
     Total      82   1352   20      0     1454         14      3   111     0    128     4   1449   53     0     1506          4     0    15      0          19       3107

 03:00 PM       10   323     3      0      336          1      0    24     0     25     2   433    10     0      445          0     0     6      0           6        812
 03:15 PM       18   347     5      0      370          2      0    21     0     23     1   394    16     0      411          1     0     2      0           3        807
 03:30 PM       19   310     2      0      331          3      0    25     0     28     2   407    10     0      419          1     0     0      0           1        779
 03:45 PM       19   335     5      0      359          3      0    31     0     34     1   389    10     0      400          2     0     2      0           4        797
     Total      66   1315   15      0     1396          9      0   101     0    110     6   1623   46     0     1675          4     0    10      0          14       3195

 04:00 PM        6   338     2      0      346          6      0    32     0     38     1   437     6     0      444          0     0      2     0           2        830
 04:15 PM       19   332     1      0      352          2      0    24     0     26     3   427     7     0      437          1     0      4     0           5        820
 04:30 PM        8   355     2      0      365          2      1    36     0     39     0   442     6     0      448          0     1      1     0           2        854
 04:45 PM        9   328     3      0      340          2      1    29     0     32     0   402    10     0      412          0     0      2     0           2        786
     Total      42   1353    8      0     1403         12      2   121     0    135     4   1708   29     0     1741          1     1      9     0          11       3290

 Grand Total   683 9950      93     0 10726 104                11 888      0   1003     40 10933   443    0 11416   17               4   75      0          96 23241
 Apprch %      6.4 92.8     0.9     0       10.4              1.1 88.5     0           0.4 95.8    3.9    0       17.7             4.2 78.1      0
  Total %      2.9 42.8     0.4     0  46.2  0.4                0  3.8     0     4.3   0.2   47    1.9    0  49.1  0.1               0  0.3      0         0.4
                                                                   4350 W. Cypress Street
SR 700 (US 98) @ Bella Vista Street                                      Suite 340                            File Name          : US98-Bella_NHD-TTP
Lakeland, Florida                                                   Tampa, Florida 33607                      Site Code          : 20707174
Polk County                                                                                                   Start Date         : 1/12/2010
                                                                                                              Page No            :1


                                                                   Groups Printed- Heavy Vehicles
                     SR 700 (US 98)                         Bella Vista Street               SR 700 (US 98)                      Bella Vista Street
                      Southbound                               Westbound                       Northbound                           Eastbound
Start Time     Left Thru Right   RTOR   App. Total   Left   Thru Right RTOR App. Total Left Thru Right RTOR   App. Total   Left Thru Right    RTOR    App. Total   Int. Total
 09:00 AM        0     6    0      0          6        0       0     0     0       0     0     3    0     0         3        0     0    1       0            1          10
 09:15 AM        0   13     0      0         13        0       0     0     0       0     0     7    0     0         7        0     0    0       0            0          20
 09:30 AM        1     8    0      0          9        0       0     0     0       0     0     5    0     0         5        0     0    0       0            0          14
 09:45 AM        0     5    0      0          5        0       0     0     0       0     0     3    0     0         3        0     0    0       0            0           8
     Total       1   32     0      0         33        0       0     0     0       0     0    18    0     0        18        0     0    1       0            1          52

 10:00 AM        0   14     0      0         14        0      0     0     0       0    0    14     0     0         14        0     0      1     0            1          29
 10:15 AM        0    7     0      0          7        0      0     0     0       0    0    14     1     0         15        0     0      1     0            1          23
 10:30 AM        0    5     0      0          5        0      0     1     0       1    0     6     0     0          6        0     0      0     0            0          12
 10:45 AM        0    4     0      0          4        0      0     0     0       0    0    13     0     0         13        0     0      0     0            0          17
     Total       0   30     0      0         30        0      0     1     0       1    0    47     1     0         48        0     0      2     0            2          81

 11:00 AM        0    8     0      0          8        1      0     0     0       1    0    10     0     0         10        0     1      0     0            1          20
 11:15 AM        0   12     0      0         12        0      1     0     0       1    1    10     0     0         11        0     0      0     0            0          24
 11:30 AM        0    4     0      0          4        0      0     0     0       0    0    11     0     0         11        1     0      0     0            1          16
 11:45 AM        0    7     0      0          7        0      0     0     0       0    0    11     0     0         11        0     0      0     0            0          18
     Total       0   31     0      0         31        1      1     0     0       2    1    42     0     0         43        1     1      0     0            2          78

 12:00 PM        0    6     0      0          6        0      0     0     0       0    0     6     0     0          6        0     0      0     0            0          12
 12:15 PM        0   10     0      0         10        0      0     0     0       0    0     5     0     0          5        0     0      0     0            0          15
 12:30 PM        0    9     0      0          9        0      0     0     0       0    0     4     0     0          4        0     0      0     0            0          13
 12:45 PM        0    9     0      0          9        0      0     0     0       0    0    10     0     0         10        0     0      0     0            0          19
     Total       0   34     0      0         34        0      0     0     0       0    0    25     0     0         25        0     0      0     0            0          59

 01:00 PM        0    9     0      0          9        0      0     0     0       0    0     6     0     0          6        0     0      0     0            0          15
 01:15 PM        0    2     0      0          2        0      0     0     0       0    0     8     0     0          8        0     0      0     0            0          10
 01:30 PM        0    9     0      0          9        0      0     0     0       0    0     6     2     0          8        0     0      0     0            0          17
 01:45 PM        0    5     0      0          5        0      0     0     0       0    0     4     0     0          4        0     0      0     0            0           9
     Total       0   25     0      0         25        0      0     0     0       0    0    24     2     0         26        0     0      0     0            0          51

 02:00 PM        1    8     0      0          9        0      0     0     0       0    0     8     0     0          8        0     0      0     0            0          17
 02:15 PM        0    9     0      0          9        0      0     0     0       0    0     7     0     0          7        0     0      0     0            0          16
 02:30 PM        1    7     0      0          8        0      0     2     0       2    0    13     0     0         13        0     0      0     0            0          23
 02:45 PM        0    3     0      0          3        0      0     0     0       0    1     8     0     0          9        0     0      0     0            0          12
     Total       2   27     0      0         29        0      0     2     0       2    1    36     0     0         37        0     0      0     0            0          68

 03:00 PM        0    9     0      0          9        0      0     0     0       0    0     5     0     0          5        0     0      0     0            0          14
 03:15 PM        0    3     1      0          4        0      0     0     0       0    1     9     0     0         10        0     0      0     0            0          14
 03:30 PM        0    9     0      0          9        0      0     0     0       0    0     6     0     0          6        0     0      0     0            0          15
 03:45 PM        0    4     0      0          4        0      0     0     0       0    0    10     0     0         10        0     0      0     0            0          14
     Total       0   25     1      0         26        0      0     0     0       0    1    30     0     0         31        0     0      0     0            0          57

 04:00 PM        0    6     0      0          6        0      0     0     0       0    0     6     0     0          6        0     0      0     0            0          12
 04:15 PM        0    3     0      0          3        0      0     0     0       0    0     4     0     0          4        0     0      0     0            0           7
 04:30 PM        0    4     0      0          4        0      0     0     0       0    0     9     0     0          9        1     0      0     0            1          14
 04:45 PM        0    7     0      0          7        0      0     0     0       0    0     5     0     0          5        0     0      0     0            0          12
     Total       0   20     0      0         20        0      0     0     0       0    0    24     0     0         24        1     0      0     0            1          45

 Grand Total     3 224       1     0       228         1       1     3    0       5     3 246       3    0       252    2    1            3     0            6        491
 Apprch %      1.3 98.2    0.4     0                  20      20   60     0           1.2 97.6    1.2    0           33.3 16.7           50     0
  Total %      0.6 45.6    0.2     0      46.4       0.2     0.2   0.6    0       1   0.6 50.1    0.6    0      51.3  0.4  0.2          0.6     0         1.2
                                                                      4350 W. Cypress Street
SR 700 (US 98) @ Bella Vista Street                                         Suite 340                                        File Name            : US98-Bella_NHD-TTP
Lakeland, Florida                                                      Tampa, Florida 33607                                  Site Code            : 20707174
Polk County                                                                                                                  Start Date           : 1/12/2010
                                                                                                                             Page No              :1


                                                                            Groups Printed- Uturn
                        SR 700 (US 98)                          Bella Vista Street              SR 700 (US 98)                                    Bella Vista Street
                         Southbound                               Westbound                      Northbound                                          Eastbound
Start Time     Uturn   Thru Right   RTOR   App. Total   Uturn   Thru Right   RTOR   App. Total   Uturn   Thru Right   RTOR   App. Total   Uturn   Thru Right   RTOR    App. Total   Int. Total
 09:00 AM         0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0
 09:15 AM         0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0
 09:30 AM         0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0
 09:45 AM         0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0
     Total        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0

 10:00 AM         0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0
 10:15 AM         0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0
 10:30 AM         0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0
 10:45 AM         0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0
     Total        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0

 11:00 AM         0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0
 11:15 AM         0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0
 11:30 AM         0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0
 11:45 AM         0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0
     Total        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0

 12:00 PM         0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0
 12:15 PM         0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0
 12:30 PM         0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0
 12:45 PM         0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0
     Total        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0

 01:00 PM         0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0
 01:15 PM         0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0
 01:30 PM         0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0
 01:45 PM         0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0
     Total        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0

 02:00 PM         0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0
 02:15 PM         0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0
 02:30 PM         0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0
 02:45 PM         0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0
     Total        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0

 03:00 PM         0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0
 03:15 PM         0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0
 03:30 PM         0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0
 03:45 PM         0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0
     Total        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0

 04:00 PM         0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0
 04:15 PM         0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0
 04:30 PM         0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0
 04:45 PM         0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0
     Total        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0

 Grand Total      0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0     0      0           0        0      0      0     0            0             0
 Apprch %         0      0     0      0                    0      0     0      0                    0      0     0      0                    0      0      0     0
  Total %
       APPENDIX B
INTERSECTION DELAY STUDY
      FIELD SHEETS
                                                      STATE OF FLORIDA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION                    FORM 750-020-07

                                                  INTERSECTION DELAY STUDY                                      TRAFFIC ENGINEERING
                                                                                                                               07/99

LOCATION:     US 98 at Bella Vista Street                  CITY:               Lakeland           COUNTY:       Polk

APPROACH:     WB                   MOVEMENT:               Left/Through                           DATE:         2/1/2010

WEATHER:      Cloudy               STUDY NO:               Mid-day                                OBSERVER:     VLC

    TIME
                 TOTAL NUMBER OF VEHICLES STOPPED IN THE APPROACH AT TIME                              APPROACH VOLUME
  (MINUTE
 STARTING )                                                                                           NUMBER    NUMBER NOT
     AT             +0 Sec                  +15 sec             +30 sec             +45 sec
                                                                                                      STOPPED     STOPPED
  12:00 PM
  12:01 PM
  12:02 PM                                                                                1               1
  12:03 PM             1                      1                      1                    1
  12:04 PM             1                                                                                  1
  12:05 PM             1                      1                      1                    1
  12:06 PM             1
  12:07 PM
  12:08 PM
  12:09 PM
  12:10 PM
  12:11 PM
  12:12 PM
  12:13 PM
  12:14 PM
  12:15 PM
  12:16 PM
  12:17 PM
  12:18 PM
  12:19 PM
  12:20 PM                                                           1                    1               1
  12:21 PM             1                                                                                  1
  12:22 PM
  12:23 PM
  12:24 PM
  12:25 PM
  12:26 PM
  12:27 PM
  12:28 PM                                                                                                1
  12:29 PM             1                      1                      1                    1
  12:30 PM             1
  12:31 PM
  12:32 PM
  12:33 PM                                                                                                1
  12:34 PM             1                      1                      1




                                                           Westbound Mid-day                                                     Page 1
LOCATION:       US 98 at Bella Vista Street              CITY:          Lakeland           COUNTY:       Polk

APPROACH:       WB                   MOVEMENT:           Left/Through                      DATE:         2/1/2010

WEATHER:        Cloudy               STUDY NO:           Mid-day                           OBSERVER:     VLC

    TIME
                   TOTAL NUMBER OF VEHICLES STOPPED IN THE APPROACH AT TIME                    APPROACH VOLUME
  (MINUTE
 STARTING )                                                                                  NUMBER      NUMBER NOT
     AT               +0 Sec                  +15 sec         +30 sec       +45 sec
                                                                                             STOPPED       STOPPED
   12:35 PM
   12:36 PM
   12:37 PM
   12:38 PM
   12:39 PM
   12:40 PM
   12:41 PM
   12:42 PM
   12:43 PM
   12:44 PM
   12:45 PM
   12:46 PM                                                                        1                1
   12:47 PM              1
   12:48 PM
   12:49 PM
   12:50 PM
   12:51 PM
   12:52 PM
   12:53 PM
   12:54 PM
   12:55 PM
   12:56 PM
   12:57 PM
   12:58 PM                                                                        1                1
   12:59 PM
Sub-Total                9                      4                  5               7                8               0
Total                                                   25                                               8

Total Delay = Total Number Stopped x Sampling Interval
                              =        25        x 15
                                                                                       =           375   Veh-Secs
Average Delay per Stopped Vehicle = Total Delay / Num. of Stopped Vehicles
                              =       375
                                                                                       =       46.88     Seconds
                                        8

Average Delay per Approach Vehicle = Total Delay / Approach Volume
                             =        375
                                                                                       =       46.88     Seconds
                                       8

Percent of Vehicle Stopped = Num. of Stopped Vehicles / Approach Volume
                               =         8
                                                                                       =       100.00    Percent
                                         8



                                                        Westbound Mid-day                                               Page 2
                                                      STATE OF FLORIDA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION                    FORM 750-020-07

                                                      INTERSECTION DELAY STUDY                                    TRAFFIC ENGINEERI


LOCATION:     US 98 at Bella Vista Street                  CITY:               Lakeland           COUNTY:       Polk

APPROACH:     WB                   MOVEMENT:               Left/Through                           DATE:         2/1/2010

WEATHER:      Cloudy               STUDY NO:               PM                                     OBSERVER:     VLC

    TIME
                 TOTAL NUMBER OF VEHICLES STOPPED IN THE APPROACH AT TIME                              APPROACH VOLUME
  (MINUTE
 STARTING )                                                                                           NUMBER    NUMBER NOT
     AT             +0 Sec                  +15 sec             +30 sec             +45 sec
                                                                                                      STOPPED     STOPPED
   4:00 PM
   4:01 PM
   4:02 PM                                                                                1               1
   4:03 PM                                    1                                                           1
   4:04 PM                                    1                     1                                     1
   4:05 PM
   4:06 PM
   4:07 PM
   4:08 PM
   4:09 PM
   4:10 PM                                    1                     1                     1               1
   4:11 PM
   4:12 PM
   4:13 PM                                                          1                     1               1
   4:14 PM             1                      1
   4:15 PM
   4:16 PM
   4:17 PM
   4:18 PM
   4:19 PM
   4:20 PM
   4:21 PM
   4:22 PM
   4:23 PM                                    1                     1                                     1
   4:24 PM
   4:25 PM
   4:26 PM                                                          1                     1               1
   4:27 PM             1
   4:28 PM
   4:29 PM
   4:30 PM
   4:31 PM
   4:32 PM
   4:33 PM
   4:34 PM




                                                             Westbound PM                                                        Page 3
LOCATION:       US 98 at Bella Vista Street              CITY:              Lakeland           COUNTY:         Polk

APPROACH:       WB                   MOVEMENT:           Left/Through                          DATE:           2/1/2010

WEATHER:        Cloudy               STUDY NO:           PM                                    OBSERVER:       VLC

    TIME
                   TOTAL NUMBER OF VEHICLES STOPPED IN THE APPROACH AT TIME                        APPROACH VOLUME
  (MINUTE
 STARTING )                                                                                      NUMBER        NUMBER NOT
     AT               +0 Sec                  +15 sec          +30 sec          +45 sec
                                                                                                 STOPPED         STOPPED
   4:35 PM
   4:36 PM                                                       1                     1                1
   4:37 PM               1                      1                1
   4:38 PM                                                                                              1
   4:39 PM
   4:40 PM                                                                                              1
   4:41 PM               1                      1                1                     1
   4:42 PM               1                      1
   4:43 PM                                      1                1                     1                1
   4:44 PM               1                      1
   4:45 PM                                                       1                     1                1
   4:46 PM
   4:47 PM
   4:48 PM                                      1                1                     1                1
   4:49 PM               1                      1                                                       2
   4:50 PM               1                      1                2                     2
   4:51 PM               2                      2                2                     2
   4:52 PM               2                      2                2                     2
   4:53 PM               1                      2                1                                      1
   4:54 PM
   4:55 PM
   4:56 PM
   4:57 PM                                                                             1                1
   4:58 PM               1                      1                1
   4:59 PM
Sub-Total                14                     20               19                16                   17                0
Total                                                   69                                                    17

Total Delay = Total Number Stopped x Sampling Interval
                              =        69        x 15
                                                                                           =           1035    Veh-Secs
Average Delay per Stopped Vehicle = Total Delay / Num. of Stopped Vehicles
                              =       1035
                                                                                           =       60.88       Seconds
                                       17

Average Delay per Approach Vehicle = Total Delay / Approach Volume
                             =       1035
                                                                                           =       60.88       Seconds
                                      17

Percent of Vehicle Stopped = Num. of Stopped Vehicles / Approach Volume
                               =        17
                                                                                           =       100.00      Percent
                                        17



                                                             Westbound PM                                                     Page 4
                                                      STATE OF FLORIDA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION                    FORM 750-020-07

                                                      INTERSECTION DELAY STUDY                                    TRAFFIC ENGINEERI


LOCATION:     US 98 at Bella Vista Street                  CITY:               Lakeland           COUNTY:       Polk

APPROACH:     EB                   MOVEMENT:               Left/Through                           DATE:         2/1/2010

WEATHER:      Cloudy               STUDY NO:               Mid-day                                OBSERVER:     VLC

    TIME
                   TOTAL NUMBER OF VEHICLES STOPPED IN THE APPROACH AT TIME                            APPROACH VOLUME
  (MINUTE
 STARTING )                                                                                           NUMBER    NUMBER NOT
     AT              +0 Sec                 +15 sec             +30 sec             +45 sec
                                                                                                      STOPPED     STOPPED
  12:00 PM
  12:01 PM
  12:02 PM
  12:03 PM
  12:04 PM
  12:05 PM
  12:06 PM
  12:07 PM
  12:08 PM
  12:09 PM
  12:10 PM
  12:11 PM
  12:12 PM
  12:13 PM
  12:14 PM
  12:15 PM
  12:16 PM
  12:17 PM
  12:18 PM
  12:19 PM
  12:20 PM
  12:21 PM
  12:22 PM
  12:23 PM
  12:24 PM
  12:25 PM
  12:26 PM
  12:27 PM
  12:28 PM
  12:29 PM
  12:30 PM
  12:31 PM
  12:32 PM
  12:33 PM
  12:34 PM




                                                           Eastbound Mid-day                                                     Page 5
LOCATION:       US 98 at Bella Vista Street             CITY:          Lakeland           COUNTY:       Polk

APPROACH:       EB                   MOVEMENT:          Left/Through                      DATE:         2/1/2010

WEATHER:        Cloudy               STUDY NO:          Mid-day                           OBSERVER:     VLC

    TIME
                     TOTAL NUMBER OF VEHICLES STOPPED IN THE APPROACH AT TIME                 APPROACH VOLUME
  (MINUTE
 STARTING )                                                                                 NUMBER      NUMBER NOT
     AT                +0 Sec                 +15 sec        +30 sec        +45 sec
                                                                                            STOPPED       STOPPED
   12:35 PM
   12:36 PM
   12:37 PM
   12:38 PM                                                                                        1
   12:39 PM              1                      1                 1               1
   12:40 PM
   12:41 PM
   12:42 PM
   12:43 PM
   12:44 PM
   12:45 PM
   12:46 PM
   12:47 PM
   12:48 PM                                                       1               1                1
   12:49 PM              1
   12:50 PM
   12:51 PM
   12:52 PM                                                       1               1                1
   12:53 PM
   12:54 PM
   12:55 PM
   12:56 PM
   12:57 PM
   12:58 PM
   12:59 PM
Sub-Total                2                      1                 3               3                3               0
Total                                                   9                                               3

Total Delay = Total Number Stopped x Sampling Interval
                              =        9         x 15
                                                                                      =           135   Veh-Secs
Average Delay per Stopped Vehicle = Total Delay / Num. of Stopped Vehicles
                              =       135
                                                                                      =       45.00     Seconds
                                        3

Average Delay per Approach Vehicle = Total Delay / Approach Volume
                             =        135
                                                                                      =       45.00     Seconds
                                       3

Percent of Vehicle Stopped = Num. of Stopped Vehicles / Approach Volume
                               =         3
                                                                                      =       100.00    Percent
                                         3



                                                        Eastbound Mid-day                                              Page 6
                                                      STATE OF FLORIDA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION                    FORM 750-020-07

                                                      INTERSECTION DELAY STUDY                                    TRAFFIC ENGINEERI


LOCATION:     US 98 at Bella Vista Street                  CITY:               Lakeland           COUNTY:       Polk

APPROACH:     EB                   MOVEMENT:               Left/Through                           DATE:         2/1/2010

WEATHER:      Cloudy               STUDY NO:               PM                                     OBSERVER:     VLC

    TIME
                   TOTAL NUMBER OF VEHICLES STOPPED IN THE APPROACH AT TIME                            APPROACH VOLUME
  (MINUTE
 STARTING )                                                                                           NUMBER    NUMBER NOT
     AT              +0 Sec                 +15 sec             +30 sec             +45 sec
                                                                                                      STOPPED     STOPPED
   4:00 PM
   4:01 PM                                    1                                                           1
   4:02 PM
   4:03 PM
   4:04 PM
   4:05 PM
   4:06 PM
   4:07 PM
   4:08 PM
   4:09 PM
   4:10 PM                                    1                     1                     1               1
   4:11 PM             1                      1
   4:12 PM
   4:13 PM
   4:14 PM
   4:15 PM                                    1                     1                     1               1
   4:16 PM             1                      1                     1                     1
   4:17 PM
   4:18 PM
   4:19 PM
   4:20 PM
   4:21 PM
   4:22 PM
   4:23 PM
   4:24 PM
   4:25 PM
   4:26 PM                                                                                                1
   4:27 PM             1
   4:28 PM
   4:29 PM
   4:30 PM
   4:31 PM
   4:32 PM
   4:33 PM
   4:34 PM




                                                              Eastbound PM                                                       Page 7
LOCATION:       US 98 at Bella Vista Street              CITY:              Lakeland           COUNTY:       Polk

APPROACH:       EB                   MOVEMENT:           Left/Through                          DATE:         2/1/2010

WEATHER:        Cloudy               STUDY NO:           PM                                    OBSERVER:     VLC

    TIME
                     TOTAL NUMBER OF VEHICLES STOPPED IN THE APPROACH AT TIME                      APPROACH VOLUME
  (MINUTE
 STARTING )                                                                                      NUMBER      NUMBER NOT
     AT                +0 Sec                 +15 sec         +30 sec           +45 sec
                                                                                                 STOPPED       STOPPED
   4:35 PM
   4:36 PM
   4:37 PM
   4:38 PM
   4:39 PM
   4:40 PM
   4:41 PM                                                                             1                1
   4:42 PM               1                      1                1                     1
   4:43 PM               1                      1                1                     1
   4:44 PM               1                      1
   4:45 PM
   4:46 PM
   4:47 PM
   4:48 PM
   4:49 PM
   4:50 PM
   4:51 PM
   4:52 PM
   4:53 PM                                                       1                     1                1
   4:54 PM               1                      1
   4:55 PM                                                                                              1
   4:56 PM               1                      1
   4:57 PM
   4:58 PM
   4:59 PM
Sub-Total                8                      10               6                     7                7               0
Total                                                   31                                                   7

Total Delay = Total Number Stopped x Sampling Interval
                              =        31        x 15
                                                                                           =           465   Veh-Secs
Average Delay per Stopped Vehicle = Total Delay / Num. of Stopped Vehicles
                              =       465
                                                                                           =       66.43     Seconds
                                        7

Average Delay per Approach Vehicle = Total Delay / Approach Volume
                             =        465
                                                                                           =       66.43     Seconds
                                       7

Percent of Vehicle Stopped = Num. of Stopped Vehicles / Approach Volume
                               =         7
                                                                                           =       100.00    Percent
                                         7



                                                             Eastbound PM                                                   Page 8
    APPENDIX C
COLLISION DIAGRAMS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N
                                                                                                                                                                                                  STRIP SHOPPING




                                                                                            CI R S
                                                                                                                                                                                                          CENTER




                                                                                                                                                                            S 98)
                                                                                                        A




                                                                                                                                                                   SR 700 (U
                                                                                                    EDEN
                                                                      HOUSES




                                                                                               BASS


                                                                                                                                         02/16/06
                                                                                                                                           1133
                                                                                                                                          d-c-L



                                                                                                                                                    02/13/06
                                                                                                                                                      1635
                                                                                                                                                      d-c-L
                                                                                                                            01/01/06
                                                                                                                              1136
                                                                                                                             d-c-L


                                                                                                                            02/06/06
                                                                                                                              0738
                                                                                                                             d-c-L


                                                                                                                            04/20/06
                                                                                                                              1002
                                                                                                                             d-c-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                     BELLA VISTA STREET
                                                                                                                03/01/06
                                                                                                                                                          08/03/06
                                                                                                                     1610
                                                                                                                                                              1041
                                                                                                                 d-c-L
                                                                                                                                                              d-c-L




                                                                                                                                                   07/19/06
                                                                                                                                                     2100
                                                                                                                                                    d-c-dk




                                                                                                                                                                     10/06/06
                                                                                                                                                                                1134
                                                                                                                                                                             d-c-L




                                                                                                                                                         01/04/06


                                                                               FIRE STATION                                                                 1011
                                                                                                                                                          d-c-L
                                                                                                                                                                                                         WATSON CLINIC
                                                                                                                                                                           02/09/06
                                                                                                                                                                                    1413
                                                                                                                                                                                    d-c-L


                                                                                                                                                                           10/27/06
                                                                                                                                                                                    1510
                                                                                                                                                                                    d-c-L


                                                                                                                                                                           12/14/06
                                                                                                                                                                                    0712
                                                                                                                                                                                    w-c-l




                                                                      CONDITION CODES                                  COLLISION SYMBOLS                                                                ACCIDENT SUMMARY
                                                                     PAVEMENT CONDITION                     vehicle direction                     rear-end collision
                                                                                                                                                                                                         PRO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 INJURY     FATAL     TOTAL
                                                                     D=DRY       W=WET                      backing vehicle                       head-on collision                                     DAMAGE
                                                                     WEATHER CONDITION                                                            SIDE SWIPE
                                                                                                            pedestrian
                                                                     C=CLEAR       R=RAIN
                                                                     F=FOG
                                                                                                                                                  out of control                            DAYTIME       9        3         0         12
                                                                                                            fixed object
                                                                                                                                                  overturned vehicle
                                                                     LIGHT CONDITION
                                                                                                            parked vehicle
                                                                                                                                                                                            NIGHTTIME     0        1         0          1
S:\20707174\GRAPHICS\Collision Diagram.dgn




                                                                     L=DAYLIGHT      DK=DARK                                                      left   turn   collision

                                                                                                            injury
                                                                     TIME OF DAY                                                                  right angle
                                                                                                                                                                                             TOTAL        9                            13
                                                                     MILITARY
                                                                                                            fatality
                                                                                                                                                  collision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4          0
                                                        1:21:51 PM




                                                                                         4350 WEST CYPRESS STREET
                                                        Time:




                                                                                                                               Project            SR 700 (US 98) @ Bella Vista Street
                                                                                         SUITE 340                                                                                                            Project No.      20707174
                                                                                                                                 Title                  Lakeland, Polk County
                                                                                         TAMPA, FLORIDA 33607
                                                                                         PHONE (813) 831-8870
                                             $(USER2)
                                                        2/9/2010




                                                                                         FAX (813) 831-9375                    Drawing                      Collision Diagram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Date             01/05/10
                                                                                                                                 Title            January 1, 2006 to December 31, 2006
                                                                                         WWW.VANUSINC.COM
                                             Name:
Title:


                                                        Date:
                                                                                                                                               06/14/07
                                                                                                                                                 1740
                                                                                                                              06/29/07           d-c-l
                                                                                                                                   1723
                                                                                                                               d-c-l



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N
                                                                                                                               03/12/07
                                                                                                                                    1407
                                                                                                                                                                                                 STRIP SHOPPING
                                                                                                                                   d-c-l




                                                                                            CI R S
                                                                                                                                                                                                         CENTER




                                                                                                                                                                           S 98)
                                                                                                        A




                                                                                                                                                                  SR 700 (U
                                                                                                    EDEN
                                                                      HOUSES




                                                                                               BASS




                                                                                                                                                      09/19/07
                                                                                                                                                         1547
                                                                                                                                                        d-c-l
                                                                                                                         01/15/07
                                                                                                                            2000
                                                                                                                           d-c-dk


                                                                                                                         06/23/07
                                                                                                                            0801
                                                                                                                           d-c-l


                                                                                                                         08/27/07
                                                                                                                                              09/21/07
                                                                                                                            1643
                                                                                                                           d-c-l
                                                                                                                                                1412
                                                                                                                                                w-R-l
                                                                                                                                                                                                    BELLA VISTA STREET
                                                                                                                                               rearend
                                                                                                                         09/07/07
                                                                                                                                               unknown
                                                                                                                            1142
                                                                                                                                              direction
                                                                                                                           d-c-l




                                                                                                                                                                                                          11/20/07
                                                                                                                                                                                                            1229
                                                                                                                                                                                                           d-c-l
                                                                                                                                                                            06/16/07
                                                                                                                                           11/19/07
                                                                                                                                                                                   1152
                                                                                                                                               2238
                                                                                                                                                                                   d-c-l
                                                                                                                                              d-c-dk




                                                                                                                                    10/29/07
                                                                                                                                       1149
                                                                                                                                      d-c-l



                                                                                                                                                       11/26/07      08/20/07
                                                                                                                                                         1157                  0757
                                                                                                                                                        d-c-l               d-c-l


                                                                                                                                                                     09/17/07
                                                                                                                                                                               1807
                                                                                                                                                                            d-c-l


                                                                                                                                                                     10/08/07
                                                                                                                                                                               0858

                                                                               FIRE STATION                                                                                 d-c-l                       WATSON CLINIC
                                                                                                                                                                     10/23/07
                                                                                                                                                                               1017
                                                                                                                                                                            d-c-l


                                                                                                                                                                     11/01/07
                                                                                                                                                                               2148
                                                                                                                                                                          d-c-dk




                                                                      CONDITION CODES                                  COLLISION SYMBOLS                                                               ACCIDENT SUMMARY
                                                                     PAVEMENT CONDITION                     vehicle direction                    rear-end collision
                                                                                                                                                                                                        PRO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                INJURY      FATAL     TOTAL
                                                                     D=DRY       W=WET                      backing vehicle                      head-on collision                                     DAMAGE
                                                                     WEATHER CONDITION                                                           SIDE SWIPE
                                                                                                            pedestrian
                                                                     C=CLEAR       R=RAIN
                                                                     F=FOG
                                                                                                                                                 out of control                            DAYTIME       12        4         0         17
                                                                                                            fixed object
                                                                                                                                                 overturned vehicle
                                                                     LIGHT CONDITION
                                                                                                            parked vehicle
                                                                                                                                                                                           NIGHTTIME      3        0         0          2
S:\20707174\GRAPHICS\Collision Diagram.dgn




                                                                     L=DAYLIGHT      DK=DARK                                                     left    turn   collision

                                                                                                            injury
                                                                     TIME OF DAY                                                                 right angle
                                                                                                                                                                                            TOTAL        15                            19
                                                                                                                                                 collision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4          0
                                                        1:22:09 PM




                                                                                                            fatality
                                                                     MILITARY




                                                                                         4350 WEST CYPRESS STREET
                                                        Time:




                                                                                                                               Project           SR 700 (US 98) @ Bella Vista Street
                                                                                         SUITE 340                                                                                                            Project No.      20707174
                                                                                                                                   Title               Lakeland, Polk County
                                                                                         TAMPA, FLORIDA 33607
                                                                                         PHONE (813) 831-8870
                                             $(USER2)
                                                        2/9/2010




                                                                                         FAX (813) 831-9375                   Drawing                      Collision Diagram
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Date             01/05/10
                                                                                                                                   Title         January 1, 2007 to December 31, 2007
                                                                                         WWW.VANUSINC.COM
                                             Name:
Title:


                                                        Date:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N
                                                                                                                                                                                             STRIP SHOPPING




                                                                                            CI R S
                                                                                                                                                                                                        CENTER




                                                                                                                                                                       S 98)
                                                                                                        A




                                                                                                                                                              SR 700 (U
                                                                                                    EDEN
                                                                                                                         07/10/08
                                                                      HOUSES




                                                                                                                           1607
                                                                                                                          d-c-l
                                                                                               BASS




                                                                                                                                                 05/13/08
                                                                                                                                                   1509
                                                                                                                                   03/10/08       d-c-l
                                                                                                                                     1119
                                                                                                                                    d-c-l


                                                                                                                                   04/23/08
                                                                                                                                     1739
                                                                                                                                    d-c-l




                                                                                                                                                                                                BELLA VISTA STREET
                                                                                                                     08/08/08
                                                                                                                       1535
                                                                                                                       w-c-l




                                                                                                                                    02/28/08
                                                                                                                                       0937
                                                                                                                                                                                            06/26/08
                                                                                                                                      w-c-l
                                                                                                                                                                                                1413
                                                                                                                                                                                                d-c-l




                                                                                                                                                 08/24/08
                                                                                                                                                   1939
                                                                                                                                                   d-c-l


                                                                                                                                                 09/16/08
                                                                                                                                                   1608             11/16/08
                                                                                                                                                   d-c-l                       1242
                                                                                                                                                                               w-r-l
                                                                                                                                                 05/28/08
                                                                                                                                                   1728
                                                                                                                                                   d-c-l



                                                                                                                                   10/31/08
                                                                                                                                     1404
                                                                                                                                     d-c-l




                                                                                                                                                                   01/08/08
                                                                                                                                                                               1714
                                                                                                                                                                          d-c-l




                                                                               FIRE STATION                                                                          08/14/08
                                                                                                                                                                                                    WATSON CLINIC
                                                                                                                                                                               1307
                                                                                                                                                                               w-c-l




                                                                      CONDITION CODES                                  COLLISION SYMBOLS                                                           ACCIDENT SUMMARY
                                                                     PAVEMENT CONDITION                     vehicle direction                  rear-end collision
                                                                                                                                                                                                    PRO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                              INJURY      FATAL     TOTAL
                                                                     D=DRY       W=WET                      backing vehicle                    head-on collision                                   DAMAGE
                                                                     WEATHER CONDITION                                                         SIDE SWIPE
                                                                                                            pedestrian
                                                                     C=CLEAR       R=RAIN
                                                                     F=FOG
                                                                                                                                               out of control                          DAYTIME          7        7         0         14
                                                                                                            fixed object
                                                                                                                                               overturned vehicle
                                                                     LIGHT CONDITION
                                                                                                            parked vehicle
                                                                                                                                                                                       NIGHTTIME        0        0         0          0
S:\20707174\GRAPHICS\Collision Diagram.dgn




                                                                     L=DAYLIGHT      DK=DARK                                                   left   turn   collision

                                                                                                            injury
                                                                     TIME OF DAY                                                               right angle
                                                                                                                                                                                        TOTAL           7                            14
                                                                                                                                               collision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7          0
                                                        1:22:29 PM




                                                                                                            fatality
                                                                     MILITARY




                                                                                         4350 WEST CYPRESS STREET
                                                        Time:




                                                                                                                                  Project      SR 700 (US 98) @ Bella Vista Street
                                                                                         SUITE 340                                                                                                          Project No.      20707174
                                                                                                                                   Title             Lakeland, Polk County
                                                                                         TAMPA, FLORIDA 33607
                                                                                         PHONE (813) 831-8870
                                             $(USER2)
                                                        2/9/2010




                                                                                         FAX (813) 831-9375                       Drawing                Collision Diagram
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Date             01/05/10
                                                                                                                                   Title       January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2008
                                                                                         WWW.VANUSINC.COM
                                             Name:
Title:


                                                        Date:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N
                                                                                                                                                                                     STRIP SHOPPING




                                                                                            CI R S
                                                                                                                                                                                             CENTER




                                                                                                                                                                       S 98)
                                                                                                        A




                                                                                                                                                              SR 700 (U
                                                                                                    EDEN
                                                                                                                         11/16/09
                                                                      HOUSES




                                                                                                                           0723
                                                                                                                          d-c-l
                                                                                                                                               05/06/09
                                                                                               BASS

                                                                                                                                                  1553
                                                                                                                                                 d-c-l




                                                                                                                                                                                        BELLA VISTA STREET
                                                                                                                                            07/20/09        07/10/09
                                                                                                                                              1230            1720
                                                                                                                                             d-c-l           d-c-l

                                                                                                                             10/03/09
                                                                                                                                  1255
                                                                                                                              d-c-l




                                                                                                                                                            08/17/09
                                                                                                                                                              1454
                                                                                                                                                             d-c-l




                                                                                                                                                             05/12/09
                                                                                                                                                                     1803
                                                                                                                                                                  w-r-l


                                                                                                                                                             05/18/09
                                                                                                                                                                      0831
                                                                                                                                                                  w-c-l


                                                                                                                                                             07/01/09
                                                                                                                                                                     1540
                                                                                                                                                                  w-c-l

                                                                               FIRE STATION                                                                                                 WATSON CLINIC




                                                                      CONDITION CODES                                  COLLISION SYMBOLS                                                   ACCIDENT SUMMARY
                                                                     PAVEMENT CONDITION                     vehicle direction                 rear-end collision
                                                                                                                                                                                            PRO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                    INJURY     FATAL     TOTAL
                                                                     D=DRY       W=WET                      backing vehicle                   head-on collision                            DAMAGE
                                                                     WEATHER CONDITION                                                        SIDE SWIPE
                                                                                                            pedestrian
                                                                     C=CLEAR       R=RAIN
                                                                     F=FOG
                                                                                                                                              out of control                   DAYTIME       7        2         0         9
                                                                                                            fixed object
                                                                                                                                              overturned vehicle
                                                                     LIGHT CONDITION
                                                                                                            parked vehicle
                                                                                                                                                                               NIGHTTIME     0        0         0         0
S:\20707174\GRAPHICS\Collision Diagram.dgn




                                                                     L=DAYLIGHT      DK=DARK                                                  left   turn   collision

                                                                                                            injury
                                                                     TIME OF DAY                                                              right angle
                                                                                                                                                                                TOTAL        7                            9
                                                                                                                                              collision
                                                                                                                                                                                                      2          0
                                                        1:22:43 PM




                                                                                                            fatality
                                                                     MILITARY




                                                                                         4350 WEST CYPRESS STREET
                                                        Time:




                                                                                                                                  Project     SR 700 (US 98) @ Bella Vista Street
                                                                                         SUITE 340                                                                                               Project No.      20707174
                                                                                                                                   Title            Lakeland, Polk County
                                                                                         TAMPA, FLORIDA 33607
                                                                                         PHONE (813) 831-8870
                                             $(USER2)
                                                        2/9/2010




                                                                                         FAX (813) 831-9375                   Drawing                  Collision Diagram
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Date             01/05/10
                                                                                                                                   Title     January 1, 2009 to November 30, 2009
                                                                                         WWW.VANUSINC.COM
                                             Name:
Title:


                                                        Date:
DISTRICT-WIDE
DISTRICT-
TRAFFIC OPERATIONAL STUDIES




                   SAMPLE VEHICLE SPOT SPEED STUDY
             SR 559 FROM COUNTY ROAD 559-A TO STATE ROAD 33
                          POLK COUNTY, FLORIDA

                DISTRICT ONE TRAFFIC OPERATIONAL STUDIES
                      STUDY TYPE IV - COMPOSITE STUDY
                         TASK 0 - SPOT SPEED STUDY




                                 SECTION NO. 16160-000
        SR 559 - BTW CR 559-A AND BAY LAKE RESORT DRIVE (MP 6.796-7.394)
          SR 559 - BTW 1-4 WESTBOUND RAMP AND CR 557-A (MP 7.688-8.237)
      SR 559 - BTW CR 557-A AND FANTASY FLIGHT ENTRANCE (MP 8.237-8.803)
SR 559 - BTW FANTASY FLIGHT AND CAMP GILEADILAKESHORE        DR (MP 8.803-9.247)
        SR 559 - BTW BRIDGES ROAD AND HAMOLIA AVENUE (MP 9.564-9.750)
                SR 559 - VICINITY OF HYDRANGEA AVENUE (MP 9.895)




                 FLORIDA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
                     DISTRICT ONE TRAFFIC OPERATIONS
                            801 North Broadway Avenue
                               Bartow, Florida 33830




                            GANNETT FLEMING, INe.
                              4350 West Cypress Street
                                     Suite 340
                                Tampa, Florida 33607
                                                                                                              End of Project
                                                                                                              Hydranages Ave




                                                                                                                                                                                                              N




                                                                                                                                                                                 Start of Project
                                                                                                                                                                                 Btw CR 559A
                                                                                                                                                                                 And Bay Lake Resort Rd
                       250 -SR 559 Polk Spee   u
                                            d St dy\     CS\
                                                    GRAPHI  Locato
                                                                 i n Mapdg
                                                                        . n


                                                                                                      30 PM
                                                                                                    55:
                                                                                                 : 5:
                052544\




                                                                                                                  GANNETT FLEMING
                                                                                               me




                                                                                                                                             Project
                                                                                              Ti




                                                                                                                  4350 WEST CYPRESS STREET             SR 559 Spot Speed Study
                                                                                                                                                                                             Project No.   052544.250
             ts\




                                                                                                                                              Title      Polk County, Florida
            c




                                                                                                                  SUITE 340
       Proje




                                                                                                                  TAMPA, FLORIDA 33607
                                                                                     USER2)
                                                                                                    1
      \
 GCA)F:


                                                                                                2/201




                                                                                                                  PHONE: (813) 831-8870      Drawing
                                                                                                                                                            Location Map                         Date       04/08/11
                                                                                              4/1




                                                                                                                  FAX: (813) 831-9375
                                                                                  : $(
$(




                                                                                                                                              Title
                                                                                                                  WWW.GFNET.COM
    :


                                                                                                  :
                                                                                me
   e


                                                                                                 e
  l


                                                                                                t
 t
                                                                              Na
                                                                                              Da
Ti
                                                    VEHICLE SPOT SPEED STUDY
LOCATION ID:    SR 559                                        SECTION:    16160
LOCATION:       btw CR 559-A & Bay Lake Resort Dr             MP:         7.095
POSTED SPEED:   55                                            COUNTY:     Polk
DATE:           04/20/11                                      PAVEMENT CONDITION:            Dry
OBSERVER:       KEP                                           TIME FROM: 9:30 AM             TIME TO:        10:15 AM
REMARKS:        TWO 250
                                                                                                                       BOTH
NUMBER OF VEHICLES            SOUTH BOUND                                 NORTH BOUND             NUMBER OF VEHICLES
                                                                                                                   DIRECTION
Cum                                                                                                         Cum              Cum
       Total                                            Speed                                         Total         Total
Total                                                                                                       Total           Total
 102                                                     70                                             1    102      1       204
 102          70                                         69        70                                        101      0       203
 102                                                     68                                                  101      0       203
 102                                                     67                                                  101      0       203
 102                                                     66                                             1    101      1       203
 102                                                     65                                             2    100      2       202
 102          65                                         64        65                                         98      0       200
 102                                                     63                                                   98      0       200
 102     1                                               62                                                   98      1       200
 101     3                                               61                                             2     98      5       199
  98     1                                               60                                             2     96      3       194
              60                                                   60
  97     1                                               59                                             6     94      7       191
  96     4                                               58                                             3     88      7       184
  92     6                                               57                                             5     85      11      177
  86     5                                               56                                             7     80      12      166
  81     3    55                                         55        55                                   8     73      11      154
  78     9                                               54                                            10     65      19      143
  69    11                                               53                                             7     55      18      124
  58    12                                               52                                             8     48      20      106
  46     9                                               51                                             5     40      14       86
  37     6    50                                         50        50                                   5     35      11       72
  31     5                                               49                                             4     30      9        61
  26     2                                               48                                             6     26      8        52
  24     5                                               47                                             6     20      11       44
  19     2                                               46                                             3     14      5        33
  17     2    45                                         45        45                                   3     11      5        28
  15     2                                               44                                             1     8       3        23
  13     5                                               43                                             1     7       6        20
  8      4                                               42                                             4     6       8        14
  4      1                                               41                                                   2       1        6
  3
              40                                         40
                                                                   40                                         2       0        5
  3      2                                               39                                             1     2       3        5
  1      1                                               38                                                   1       1        2
  0                                                      37                                                   1       0        1
  0           35                                         36        35                                         1       0        1
  0                                                      35                                             1     1       1        1
  0                                                      34                                                   0       0        0
  0                                                      33                                                   0       0        0
  0                                                      32                                                   0       0        0
  0           30                                         31        30                                         0       0        0
  0                                                      30                                                   0       0        0
 102         TOTALS                                                                            TOTALS   102          204
     SPEED DATA SUMMARY       SOUTH BOUND              NORTH BOUND              BOTH DIRECTIONS
                                                                                                 ENGINEER:     Vicki Castro, PE
85th PERCENTILE SPEED                   56.1                       57.6               56.7
10 MPH PACE                        49    --    58             47    --    56       48   --   57      DATE:         April 27, 2011
                                                   VEHICLE SPOT SPEED STUDY
LOCATION ID:    SR 559                                       SECTION:    16160
LOCATION:       btw I-4 WB Ramps & CR 557-A                  MP:         7.963
POSTED SPEED:   55                                           COUNTY:     Polk
DATE:           04/20/11                                     PAVEMENT CONDITION:            Dry
OBSERVER:       KEP                                          TIME FROM: 10:15 AM            TIME TO:        11:00 AM
REMARKS:        TWO 250
                                                                                                                      BOTH
NUMBER OF VEHICLES           SOUTH BOUND                                 NORTH BOUND             NUMBER OF VEHICLES
                                                                                                                  DIRECTION
Cum                                                                                                        Cum              Cum
       Total                                           Speed                                         Total         Total
Total                                                                                                      Total           Total
 103                                                    70                                                  102      0       205
 103         70                                         69        70                                        102      0       205
 103                                                    68                                                  102      0       205
 103                                                    67                                                  102      0       205
 103                                                    66                                                  102      0       205
 103                                                    65                                                  102      0       205
 103         65                                         64        65                                        102      0       205
 103                                                    63                                                  102      0       205
 103                                                    62                                             1    102      1       205
 103                                                    61                                                  101      0       204
 103                                                    60                                             1    101      1       204
             60                                                   60
 103                                                    59                                             4    100      4       203
 103     1                                              58                                             2     96      3       199
 102     1                                              57                                             4     94      5       196
 101     3                                              56                                             3     90      6       191
  98     4   55                                         55        55                                   4     87      8       185
  94     2                                              54                                             2     83      4       177
  92     7                                              53                                             5     81      12      173
  85     2                                              52                                             7     76      9       161
  83     5                                              51                                             6     69      11      152
  78     7   50                                         50        50                                  10     63      17      141
  71     6                                              49                                             7     53      13      124
  65     8                                              48                                            10     46      18      111
  57    10                                              47                                             3     36      13       93
  47     7                                              46                                            11     33      18       80
  40     8   45                                         45        45                                   6     22      14       62
  32     9                                              44                                             1     16      10       48
  23     5                                              43                                             1     15      6        38
  18     3                                              42                                             8     14      11       32
  15     6                                              41                                                   6       6        21
  9      5
             40                                         40
                                                                  40                                   3     6       8        15
  4      1                                              39                                             2     3       3        7
  3                                                     38                                                   1       0        4
  3                                                     37                                                   1       0        4
  3          35                                         36        35                                         1       0        4
  3      2                                              35                                                   1       2        4
  1      1                                              34                                                   1       1        2
  0                                                     33                                             1     1       1        1
  0                                                     32                                                   0       0        0
  0          30                                         31        30                                         0       0        0
  0                                                     30                                                   0       0        0
 103         TOTALS                                                                           TOTALS   102          205
     SPEED DATA SUMMARY      SOUTH BOUND              NORTH BOUND              BOTH DIRECTIONS
                                                                                                ENGINEER:     Vicki Castro, PE
85th PERCENTILE SPEED                  52.4                       54.9               53.3
10 MPH PACE                       44    --    53             45    --    54       44   --   53      DATE:         April 27, 2011
                                                     VEHICLE SPOT SPEED STUDY
LOCATION ID:    SR 559                                         SECTION:    16160
LOCATION:       btw CR 557-A & Fantasy Flight Entr             MP:         8.520
POSTED SPEED:   55                                             COUNTY:     Polk
DATE:           04/20/11                                       PAVEMENT CONDITION:            Dry
OBSERVER:       KEP                                            TIME FROM: 1:00 PM             TIME TO:        1:45 PM
REMARKS:        TWO 250
                                                                                                                        BOTH
NUMBER OF VEHICLES             SOUTH BOUND                                 NORTH BOUND             NUMBER OF VEHICLES
                                                                                                                    DIRECTION
Cum                                                                                                          Cum              Cum
       Total                                             Speed                                         Total         Total
Total                                                                                                        Total           Total
 105                                                      70                                                  102      0       207
 105          70                                          69        70                                        102      0       207
 105                                                      68                                                  102      0       207
 105                                                      67                                                  102      0       207
 105                                                      66                                                  102      0       207
 105                                                      65                                                  102      0       207
 105          65                                          64        65                                        102      0       207
 105                                                      63                                                  102      0       207
 105     1                                                62                                                  102      1       207
 104     3                                                61                                             1    102      4       206
 101     1                                                60                                                  101      1       202
              60                                                    60
 100     2                                                59                                             2    101      4       201
  98     1                                                58                                             1     99      2       197
  97     1                                                57                                             2     98      3       195
  96     4                                                56                                             1     96      5       192
  92     6    55                                          55        55                                   4     95      10      187
  86     3                                                54                                             3     91      6       177
  83     5                                                53                                             6     88      11      171
  78    10                                                52                                            10     82      20      160
  68     9                                                51                                            13     72      22      140
  59    11    50                                          50        50                                   7     59      18      118
  48    12                                                49                                             7     52      19      100
  36     5                                                48                                             5     45      10       81
  31     7                                                47                                             4     40      11       71
  24     7                                                46                                             9     36      16       60
  17     6    45                                          45        45                                   7     27      13       44
  11     4                                                44                                             4     20      8        31
  7      2                                                43                                             4     16      6        23
  5      2                                                42                                             5     12      7        17
  3      1                                                41                                                   7       1        10
  2      1
              40                                          40
                                                                    40                                   1     7       2        9
  1      1                                                39                                             2     6       3        7
  0                                                       38                                             2     4       2        4
  0                                                       37                                                   2       0        2
  0           35                                          36        35                                   2     2       2        2
  0                                                       35                                                   0       0        0
  0                                                       34                                                   0       0        0
  0                                                       33                                                   0       0        0
  0                                                       32                                                   0       0        0
  0           30                                          31        30                                         0       0        0
  0                                                       30                                                   0       0        0
 105         TOTALS                                                                             TOTALS   102          207
     SPEED DATA SUMMARY        SOUTH BOUND              NORTH BOUND              BOTH DIRECTIONS
                                                                                                  ENGINEER:     Vicki Castro, PE
85th PERCENTILE SPEED                    54.5                       52.8               53.8
10 MPH PACE                         44     --   53             44    --    53       44   --   53      DATE:         April 27, 2011
                                                   VEHICLE SPOT SPEED STUDY
LOCATION ID:    SR 559                                        SECTION:   16160
LOCATION:       btw Fantasy Flight & Camp Gilead/Lakeshore Dr MP:        9.025
POSTED SPEED:   55                                            COUNTY:    Polk
DATE:           04/20/11                                      PAVEMENT CONDITION:       Dry
OBSERVER:       KEP                                           TIME FROM: 1:45 PM        TIME TO:        2:30 PM
REMARKS:        TWO 250
                                                                                                                  BOTH
NUMBER OF VEHICLES          SOUTH BOUND                              NORTH BOUND             NUMBER OF VEHICLES
                                                                                                              DIRECTION
Cum                                                                                                    Cum              Cum
       Total                                      Speed                                          Total         Total
Total                                                                                                  Total           Total
 106                                                70                                             1    102      1       208
 106          70                                    69        70                                        101      0       207
 106                                                68                                             1    101      1       207
 106     1                                          67                                                  100      1       206
 105                                                66                                                  100      0       205
 105                                                65                                             1    100      1       205
 105     2    65                                    64        65                                         99      2       204
 103                                                63                                             1     99      1       202
 103     2                                          62                                             1     98      3       201
 101     1                                          61                                             4     97      5       198
 100     4                                          60                                             3     93      7       193
              60                                              60
  96     2                                          59                                             3     90      5       186
  94     5                                          58                                             5     87      10      181
  89     4                                          57                                             6     82      10      171
  85     8                                          56                                            11     76      19      161
  77     8    55                                    55        55                                   9     65      17      142
  69     6                                          54                                             8     56      14      125
  63     8                                          53                                            11     48      19      111
  55    10                                          52                                            12     37      22       92
  45     7                                          51                                             6     25      13       70
  38     9    50                                    50        50                                   7     19      16       57
  29     4                                          49                                             1     12      5        41
  25     5                                          48                                             1     11      6        36
  20     4                                          47                                             2     10      6        30
  16     2                                          46                                             3     8       5        24
  14     5    45                                    45        45                                   2     5       7        19
  9      5                                          44                                                   3       5        12
  4      4                                          43                                                   3       4        7
  0                                                 42                                             2     3       2        3
  0                                                 41                                                   1       0        1
  0
              40                                    40
                                                              40                                         1       0        1
  0                                                 39                                                   1       0        1
  0                                                 38                                             1     1       1        1
  0                                                 37                                                   0       0        0
  0           35                                    36        35                                         0       0        0
  0                                                 35                                                   0       0        0
  0                                                 34                                                   0       0        0
  0                                                 33                                                   0       0        0
  0                                                 32                                                   0       0        0
  0           30                                    31        30                                         0       0        0
  0                                                 30                                                   0       0        0
 106         TOTALS                                                                       TOTALS   102          208
     SPEED DATA SUMMARY     SOUTH BOUND           NORTH BOUND              BOTH DIRECTIONS
                                                                                            ENGINEER:     Vicki Castro, PE
85th PERCENTILE SPEED                 57.2                    57.9               57.6
10 MPH PACE                      48    --    57          50    --    59       49   --   58      DATE:         April 27, 2011
                                                    VEHICLE SPOT SPEED STUDY
LOCATION ID:    SR 559                                        SECTION:    16160
LOCATION:       btw Bridges Rd & Hamolia Ave                  MP:         9.657
POSTED SPEED:   45                                            COUNTY:     Polk
DATE:           04/20/11                                      PAVEMENT CONDITION:            Dry
OBSERVER:       KEP                                           TIME FROM: 2:30 PM             TIME TO:        3:15 PM
REMARKS:        TWO 250
                                                                                                                       BOTH
NUMBER OF VEHICLES            SOUTH BOUND                                 NORTH BOUND             NUMBER OF VEHICLES
                                                                                                                   DIRECTION
Cum                                                                                                         Cum              Cum
       Total                                            Speed                                         Total         Total
Total                                                                                                       Total           Total
 102                                                     60                                                  104      0       206
 102          60                                         59        60                                        104      0       206
 102                                                     58                                                  104      0       206
 102                                                     57                                                  104      0       206
 102                                                     56                                                  104      0       206
 102                                                     55                                             1    104      1       206
 102     1    55                                         54        55                                        103      1       205
 101                                                     53                                                  103      0       204
 101                                                     52                                             1    103      1       204
 101     1                                               51                                             2    102      3       203
 100     1                                               50                                             2    100      3       200
              50                                                   50
  99     1                                               49                                             2     98      3       197
  98     3                                               48                                                   96      3       194
  95     5                                               47                                             3     96      8       191
  90    11                                               46                                             2     93      13      183
  79     4    45                                         45        45                                  10     91      14      170
  75     2                                               44                                             5     81      7       156
  73     7                                               43                                             1     76      8       149
  66     6                                               42                                             3     75      9       141
  60     6                                               41                                             7     72      13      132
  54     5    40                                         40        40                                   8     65      13      119
  49    10                                               39                                             9     57      19      106
  39     3                                               38                                             4     48      7        87
  36     7                                               37                                             5     44      12       80
  29     7                                               36                                             6     39      13       68
  22     4    35                                         35        35                                   9     33      13       55
  18     2                                               34                                             2     24      4        42
  16     4                                               33                                             2     22      6        38
  12     4                                               32                                             2     20      6        32
  8      2                                               31                                             3     18      5        26
  6      1
              30                                         30
                                                                   30                                   4     15      5        21
  5      1                                               29                                             1     11      2        16
  4      2                                               28                                             2     10      4        14
  2      1                                               27                                                   8       1        10
  1           25                                         26        25                                   3     8       3        9
  1      1                                               25                                             1     5       2        6
  0                                                      24                                             2     4       2        4
  0                                                      23                                             1     2       1        2
  0                                                      22                                             1     1       1        1
  0           20                                         21        20                                         0       0        0
  0                                                      20                                                   0       0        0
 102         TOTALS                                                                            TOTALS   104          206
     SPEED DATA SUMMARY       SOUTH BOUND              NORTH BOUND              BOTH DIRECTIONS
                                                                                                 ENGINEER:     Vicki Castro, PE
85th PERCENTILE SPEED                   45.7                       44.7               45.4
10 MPH PACE                        37    --    46             36    --    45       37   --   46      DATE:         April 27, 2011
                                                    VEHICLE SPOT SPEED STUDY
LOCATION ID:    SR 559                                            SECTION:          16160
LOCATION:       near Hydrangea Ave                                MP:               9.895
POSTED SPEED:   35                                                COUNTY:           Polk
DATE:           04/20/11                                          PAVEMENT CONDITION:                Dry
OBSERVER:       KEP                                               TIME FROM: 3:15 PM                 TIME TO:        4:00 PM
REMARKS:        TWO 249 - The speed limit is 55 mph immediately south of the spot speed location.
                                                                                                                            BOTH
NUMBER OF VEHICLES             SOUTH BOUND                                    NORTH BOUND                 NUMBER OF VEHICLES
                                                                                                                        DIRECTION
Cum                                                                                                              Cum              Cum
       Total                                               Speed                                           Total         Total
Total                                                                                                            Total           Total
 106                                                         50                                                   100      0       206
 106          50                                             49        50                                         100      0       206
 106                                                         48                                                   100      0       206
 106                                                         47                                              2    100      2       206
 106     2                                                   46                                              4     98      6       204
 104                                                         45                                              3     94      3       198
 104     1    45                                             44        45                                    2     91      3       195
 103     3                                                   43                                              2     89      5       192
 100     4                                                   42                                              2     87      6       187
  96     7                                                   41                                              7     85      14      181
  89     3                                                   40                                              7     78      10      167
              40                                                       40
  86     7                                                   39                                              5     71      12      157
  79     4                                                   38                                              3     66      7       145
  75     6                                                   37                                              3     63      9       138
  69     4                                                   36                                              7     60      11      129
  65     7    35                                             35        35                                    4     53      11      118
  58     7                                                   34                                              5     49      12      107
  51    10                                                   33                                             10     44      20       95
  41    11                                                   32                                             11     34      22       75
  30     8                                                   31                                              2     23      10       53
  22     4    30                                             30        30                                    1     21      5        43
  18     4                                                   29                                              1     20      5        38
  14     1                                                   28                                              1     19      2        33
  13     3                                                   27                                              1     18      4        31
  10     2                                                   26                                              4     17      6        27
  8      2    25                                             25        25                                    5     13      7        21
  6      2                                                   24                                              4     8       6        14
  4                                                          23                                              2     4       2        8
  4                                                          22                                              1     2       1        6
  4                                                          21                                              1     1       1        5
  4
              20                                             20
                                                                       20                                          0       0        4
  4      1                                                   19                                                    0       1        4
  3                                                          18                                                    0       0        3
  3      1                                                   17                                                    0       1        3
  2           15                                             16        15                                          0       0        2
  2      1                                                   15                                                    0       1        2
  1                                                          14                                                    0       0        1
  1                                                          13                                                    0       0        1
  1      1                                                   12                                                    0       1        1
  0           10                                             11        10                                          0       0        0
  0                                                          10                                                    0       0        0
 106         TOTALS                                                                                 TOTALS   100          206
     SPEED DATA SUMMARY        SOUTH BOUND                NORTH BOUND                BOTH DIRECTIONS
                                                                                                      ENGINEER:     Vicki Castro, PE
85th PERCENTILE SPEED                     40.2                         41.0                40.6
10 MPH PACE                          30     --   39               32    --    41         32     --   41      DATE:         April 27, 2011
DISTRICT-WIDE
DISTRICT-
TRAFFIC OPERATIONAL STUDIES




                              REQUIRED FORMS
