      Scoping Report




US Rout e 7 / VT 104A Int ersect ion and
VT104A Bridge No. B1 ov er Arrow head
Mount ain Lake

      In t he Tow n of Georgia, Vermont


                          Prepared for:




                                          The N orthw est Regional
                                          Planning Commission and
                                          The Tow n of Georgia


                          Prep ared by




                       Sep tem ber 30, 2013   D RAFT
                                                                 Table of Contents

1.0    Introduction ............................................................................................................. 1
          1.1 US7 / VT104A Intersection                                                                                       1-2
          1.2 Bridge N o. 1 over Arrow head Mountain Lake                                                                     1-2

          1.3 Local Concerns Meeting                                                                                          1-3

          1.4 Project Purpose and N eed                                                                                       1-3


2.0    D ocumentation of Existing Conditions ............................................................ 2-1
          2.1 Introduction                                                                                                    2-1

          2.2 D ata Collection                                                                                                2-1

          2.3 US7 / VT104A Intersection                                                                                       2-1

          2.4 Bridge B-1                                                                                                      2-5


3.0    Evaluation of Solution Alternativess ................................................................ 3-1
          3.1 Introduction                                                                                                    3-1

          3.2 Intersection Alternatives                                                                                       3-2

          3.3 Bridge Alternatives                                                                                             3-5


4.0    Summary and Recommendations ...................................................................... 4-1



Appendices
A ­VH B Traffic and Accid ent Su m m ary Mem orand u m

B ­ VTrans Local Concerns Meeting & Pu blic Inform ational Meeting




Author:     Gregory L. Bakos                gbakos@vhb.com




 Contents
US 7 /VT 104A Int ersect ion & Bridge No. B-1 ov er Arrow head Mount ain Lake




                                                                                                             1
                                                                                    Introduction


                        The Tow n of Georgia id entified the need for safety and op erational im p rovem ents at
                        the intersection of US7 and VT104A. They also id entified concerns at the VT104A
                        Brid ge (Brid ge N o. B1) over Arrow head Mou ntain Lake. This rep ort su m m arizes the
                        resu lts of a stu d y that w as cond u cted to ad d ress these need s w ith su p p ort from the
                        N orthw est Regional Planning Com m ission. This rep ort id entifies existing
                        d eficiencies and evalu ates p otential solu tions that ad d ress the p roject Pu rp ose and
                        N eed .

                        Each chap ter of this rep ort is sp lit into tw o sections becau se there are tw o d istinct
                        areas of concern w ithin the stu d y area. The first sections are for the intersection and
                        the second sections are for the brid ge. The m ap below d ep icts both locations w ithin
                        the stu d y area.




                                                               Stu d y
                                                               Intersection




                                                                                         Brid ge B-1




                        1-1      Docum entation of Existing Cond itions
US 7 /VT 104A Int ersect ion & Bridge No. B-1 ov er Arrow head Mount ain Lake




1.1     US7 / VT104A Intersection




                                                                                    104A




                                   US7




                        The US7 / VT104A intersection is located d u e sou th of the Exit 18 - US7 / I89
                        interchange. The existing US7 corrid or is p red om inantly tw o lanes w ith center tu rn
                        lanes at intersections and at the interstate ram p s. There are cu rrently no traffic
                        signals w ithin the stu d y area and the ad jacent land u se is p red om inantly com m ercial
                        in the vicinity of the su bject intersection . VT104A form s a "T" intersection w ith US7
                        and is STOP controlled .



1.2     Bridge No. B1 over Arrowhead
        Mountain Lake




                                      104A
                                                                              Bridge B-1




                        Brid ge B -1 carries VT104A across a sm all stream fed arm of Arrow head Mou ntain
                        Lake. VT104A has becom e a p rim ary com m u ter rou te since it p rovid es access to US7
                        and I-89 from ou tlying com m u nities. Arrow head Mou ntain Lake is fed by the
                        Lam oille River and is d am controlled in Milton.




                        1-2     Docum entation of Existing Cond itions
US 7 /VT 104A Int ersect ion & Bridge No. B-1 ov er Arrow head Mount ain Lake




1.3     Local Concerns Meeting
                        A Local Concerns Meeting w as held at the Georgia Tow n Office on Au gu st 27, 2012
                        to gather inp u t from local, regional and State officials, as w ell as concerned citizens.
                        The intent of the m eeting w as to gu id e the stu d y team in u nd erstand ing the concerns
                        and d esires of the com m u nity relative to the tw o stu d y locations. It w as also a u sefu l
                        d ata gathering step since m any of the p u blic com m ents w ere insightfu l in d escribing
                        the concerns from the local p ersp ective and regional context.



1.4     Project purpose and Need
                        The Local Concern Mee ting su p p lem ented the stu d y team 's p roject u nd erstand ing
                        and therefore help ed d evelop the follow ing p roject Pu rp ose & N eed Statem ent.

                US 7 / VT 104A Intersection:
                        PURPOSE:
                        The p u rp ose of this p roject com p onent is to im p rove m obility and safety for
                        m otorists, p ed estrians and bicyclists throu gh the US 7 / VT 104A intersection. These
                        im p rovem ents shou ld be accom p lished w ithin the context of the Com m u nity's
                        cu rrent and long range vision for the Sou th Village Core that inclu d es changes in
                        ad jacent land u se, traffic p atterns, aesthetics and com m u nity character.

                        N EED :
                        The p roject need is largely d efined by the follow ing concerns and d eficiencies:

                        Traffic Mobility and Safety:
                        Du ring p eak hou rs it is often d ifficu lt for m otorists on VT 104A to find su itable gap s
                        to sa fely enter US 7. VT 104A and the op p osing Peop le's Tru st Com p any bank
                        d rivew ay are Stop controlled , w hereas US 7 is u ncontrolled throu gh the intersection.
                        This resu lts in extensive p eak hou r d elays on VT 104A, and this contribu tes to safety
                        concerns w hen m otorist fru stration lead s to risk taking into 40 MPH US 7 traffic.

                        The VT 104A ap p roach is not strip ed for tw o lanes, how ever it d oes fu nction that
                        w ay since left and right tu rning vehicles tend to stack sid e by sid e at the stop line.
                        Large tru cks have d ifficu lty m aking right tu rns w ithou t u sing the entire ap p roach
                        w id th, and this som etim es creates conflicts w ith cars.

                        The short cu t-throu gh that connects VT 104A to US 7 N orth is a m inor concern
                        becau se it is u nclear to som e m otorists that it is not in tend ed as a right tu rn slip
                        ram p , bu t rather exists to p rovid e access to the tw o bu sinesses that abu t the State
                        right-of-w ay at the intersection.




                        1-3       Docum entation of Existing Cond itions
US 7 /VT 104A Int ersect ion & Bridge No. B-1 ov er Arrow head Mount ain Lake



                        Another safety related concern is the relatively high nu m ber of active bu siness
                        d rivew ays w ithin close p roxim ity of the intersection. These d rives rep resent p otential
                        conflict p oints as m otorists p ass throu gh the intersection.

                        Pedestrian and Bike Accommodations
                        The only sid ew alks w ithin the p roject lim its are on the w est sid e of US 7 and they
                        generally consist of short segm ents that d o not connect. There are no p ed estrian
                        crossw alks across either road w ay w ithin the p roject lim its. There are no sp ecial bike
                        accom m od ations w ithin the p roject, althou gh the p aved US 7 shou ld ers are w id e
                        enou gh for bikes.

                VT 104A Bridge - B1
                        PURPOSE:
                        The p u rp ose of this p roject com p onent is to ad d ress the p oor cond ition and
                        su bstand ard geom etry of VT 104A brid ge B1 in an environm entally resp onsible and
                        cost effective m anner.

                        N EED :
                        The p roject need is largely d efined by the follow ing concerns and d eficiencies:

                        Bridge Condition:
                        The existing brid ge, bu ilt in 1937, is in satisfactory cond ition overall, bu t there is
                        ongoing d eterioration of the d eck and ru sting of the steel beam s. The existing
                        concrete gu ard rail p osts are severely d eteriorated and the steel beam gu ard rail has
                        becom e d etached from the p osts in areas and is an im m ed iate safety concern.

                        Bridge and Roadw ay Geometry:
                        The existing brid ge is very narrow , w ith only a 20'-7" cu rb to cu rb w id th and no
                        shou ld ers or sid ew alks. (The cu rrent State stand ard w id th w ou ld be in the range of
                        30' to 34'.) The brid ge often fu nctions as a one -lane brid ge since large tru cks tend to
                        strad d le the centerline, p reventing oncom ing vehicles from crossing at the sam e tim e.
                        It is very intim id ating for bikes and p ed estrians to cross w ith m otor vehicles d u e to
                        the narrow w id th and lack of sid ew alks and p ed estrian railings.

                        The brid ge ap p roaches are also narrow and environm entally constrained since they
                        are bu ilt on fill in the lake. The road w id th on these cau sew ays is ap p roxim ately 26'.

                        Bridge Clearance:
                        The bottom of the steel brid ge beam s are only 1' to 2' above the su rface of Arrow
                        H ead Lake. The VTrans brid ge insp ections note occasional top p ing of the road
                        d u ring flood cond itions, althou gh this w as not corroborated by the com m u nity. The
                        Com m u nity has m entioned that it is d ifficu lt for kayakers to p ass u nd er the brid ge. A
                        higher brid ge p rofile shou ld be consid ered in the event the su p erstru ctu re is
                        rep laced .




                        1-4       Docum entation of Existing Cond itions
US 7 /VT 104A Int ersect ion & Bridge No. B-1 ov er Arrow head Mount ain Lake




                                                                                                           2
                                                                   D ocumentation of
                                                                  Existing Conditions


2.1     Introduction
                        Prior to d evelop ing solu tion alternatives it w as first necessary to d ocu m ent the
                        existing cond itions at the tw o stu d y locations. This involved d ata gathering, review
                        of relevant corresp ond ence and p reviou s rep orts, and field -based observations and
                        m easu rem ents. The follow ing section d escribes the d ata gathering resu lts.



2.2     Data Collection
                        The stu d y team 's initial d ata gathering p rim arily consisted of Geograp hic
                        Inform ation System s (GIS) d ata gathering su p p lem ented by d irect field observations
                        and collection of relevant traffic and crash d ata from VTrans. Environm ental
                        field w ork w as p erform ed at a reconnaissance level only. VH B d id not d elineate
                        w etland bou nd aries since w etland s w ere either not p resent (at the intersection) or
                        w ere obviou s (along the cau sew ay at the brid ge).

                        Physical consid erations that w ere observed inclu d ed road sid e em bankm ents,
                        com m ercial and resid ential p rop erties, d rivew ays, sid ew alks, signs, d rainage
                        cu lverts and sw ales, and u tility p oles. In ad d ition, m otorist op erations and behavior
                        w ere closely observed at the intersection and the brid ge.




2.3     US7 / VT104A Intersection

                        Intersection Geometry
                        Within the stu d y intersection US7 has 12-foot w id e single northbou nd and
                        sou thbou nd throu gh lanes, and a single sou thbou nd left tu rn lane onto VT104A. US7
                        has 6 to 8-foot p aved shou ld ers and raised center m ed ians w ithin the intersection
                        lim its.




                        2-1     Docum entation of Existing Cond itions
US 7 /VT 104A Int ersect ion & Bridge No. B-1 ov er Arrow head Mount ain Lake



                        VT104A has 11-foot travel lanes and narrow shou ld ers. The w estbou nd ap p roach
                        intersects US7 at a slight skew , and there is a p aved one-w ay slip lane that connects
                        from VT104A w estbou nd to US7 northbou nd .

                        The exit from the Peop le's Tru st bank form s a fou rth leg of the intersection d irectly
                        op p osite VT104A. This stop controlled ap p roach is one-w ay eastbou nd into the
                        intersection, and vehicles m ay tu rn right, left of go straight.




                                                                              VT104A
                        Traffic Analysis
                        The op erational concerns w ithin the stu d y area p rim arilly consist of long d elay s on
                        VT104A d u ring p eak hou rs since that ap p roach is stop controlled and US7 op erates
                        u nd er u ncontrolled free flow .


                                                     Slip Lane

                        Safety Concerns

                              US7




                                                People's Trust Bank                    US7 / VT104A Intersection


                        It is im p ortant to note that the w estbou nd VT104A ap p roach is strip ed a s one lane,
                        how ever vehicles are frequ ently observed form ing a left and a right (an d / or a
                        throu gh) lane. In ad d ition, right tu rning tru cks are observed starting the right tu rn
                        from the left sid e of the ap rp oach in an effort to m ake the right tu rn w ithou t the rear
                        w heels off-tracking into the grass. This is p roblem atic w hen right tu rning
                        au tom obiles m ove u p besid e the tru cks u naw are that the tru cks w ill tu rn right. This
                        has resu lted in crashes since the tru ck d rivers (in yellow above) d o not exp ect the
                        au tom obiles (in red ) to be besid e them since it is one lane.




                                                                 VT104A Westbou nd



                        The VT104A w estbou nd to US7 northbou nd slip lane is a m inor concern becau se
                        som e m otorists u se it to avoid d elays at the stop sign at US7. This slip lane is m eant
                        to p rovid e access to the ad jacent bu sinesses, bu t it also introd u ces som e confu sion for



                        2-2         Docum entation of Existing Cond itions
US 7 /VT 104A Int ersect ion & Bridge No. B-1 ov er Arrow head Mount ain Lake



                        m otorists u ncertain abou t w hether they shou ld be u sing it to tu rn right onto US7.
                        The re-entry p oint at US7 is at a very skew ed angle and introd u ces a second p otential
                        p oint of conflict for vehicles on US7 in less than 100 feet. The below p hoto also
                        show s that the p lacem ent of the exiting gu id e signs m ight su gg est that m otorists
                        shou ld u se the slip lane to access US7, w hich is not the intent.




                                                                                                     Slip Lane




                        Traffic Operations
                        A stu d y of the existing and p rojected traffic show s that the VT104A and Bank
                        d rivew ay ap p roaches are p red icted to op erate at Levels of Service (LOS) E in the
                        assu m ed constru ction year of 2016, and LOS F in the 2036 d esign year if no
                        im p rovem ents are m ad e. This analysis is consistent w ith field observations of
                        significant p eak hou r d elays on VT104A. A traffic signal w arrant analysis ind icates
                        that a traffic signal is w arranted at the intersection . A m em orand u m that su m m arizes
                        the traffic analysis and crash history in greater d etail is inclu d ed in the ap p end ix.

                        Traffic safety
                        The intersection is not classified as a high crash locatio n based on the crash d ata that
                        w as available from 2007 throu gh 2011. The ad jacent US7 segm ents w ere classified as
                        high crash locations how ever. The m u ltip le com m ercial d rives along this corrid or are
                        likely contribu ting factors. Within the intersection congestion and d elay on the
                        VT104A ap p roach is a safety concern since m otorists are m ore ap t to take chances
                        and fill sm all gap s in the stead y US7 traffic flow w hen they have been slow ly
                        ad vancing in a long qu eu e to the 104A stop sign.

                        Use of the one lane w estbou nd VT104A ap p roach as tw o lanes also introd u ces safety
                        concerns w hen right tu rning tru cks occu p y the left sid e of the ap p roach, as
                        p reviou sly d escribed . The crash d ata show s that this d oes resu lt in crashes, althou gh
                        they are very low sp eed . The m ore critical crashes are broad sid e crashes that resu lt
                        from tu rning vehicles crossing or entering the US7 traffic since US7 is signed for 40
                        MPH .

                        Bike and Pedestrian Accommodations
                        The intersection cu rrently has m inim al accom m od ations for p ed estrians as show n in
                        the figu re below . The sid ew alks that d o exist are on the w est sid e and are not
                        continu ou s. There are no sid ew alks on the east sid e and there are no crossw alks
                        across US7 or VT104A.




                        2-3      Docum entation of Existing Cond itions
US 7 /VT 104A Int ersect ion & Bridge No. B-1 ov er Arrow head Mount ain Lake




                        There are no form al bike accom m od ations w ithin the stu d y intersection, how ever
                        US7 d oes have p aved shou ld ers. At the Local Concerns Meeting the p u blic noted that
                        VT107A is not a bike friend ly rou te since it has m inim al shou ld ers and 40-50 MPH
                        sp eed s. US7 also has relatively high sp eed s bu t shou ld ers are m ore p revalent.
                        N either rou te is a d esignated bike rou te.




                        In 2012 RSG, Inc. com p leted a Georgia Sou th Village Bicycle and p ed estrian
                        Feasibility Stu d y for Tow n of Georgia and the N orthw est Regional Planning
                        Com m ission. That stu d y inclu d ed a larger stu d y area than this inetrsection stu d y. It
                        ad vised that the long term intersection im p rovem ents inclu d e the folloiw ng
                        characteristics to be consistent w ith the overal stu d y recom m end ations.
                             Minim ize p ed estrian crossing d istances,
                             Use d esign elem ents to enhance m otorist yield ing behavior to bicyclists and
                                 p ed estrians,
                             Provid e m arked p ed estrian crossings w here ap p rop riate,
                             Allow for bicycle throu gh and tu rning m ovem ents,
                             Allow for fu tu re transit circu lation,
                             Allow for fu tu re exp ansion of an eastbou nd leg (cu rrent ly from the bank)
                                 into the intersection, and
                        The final im p rovem ents of the above stu d y shou ld accom m od ate sid ew alk s and
                        crossings at all fou r legs of theintersection.

                        Context
                        The US7 / VT104A intersection falls w ithin the Sou th Village Core, as d iscu ssed in
                        the Tow n's 2009 Georgia South V illage Core Strategic Plan. That p lan d escribes a vision
                        for concetrated m ixed u se d evelop m ent arou nd the sou thern US7 corrid or. It w ou ld
                        inclu d e a netw ork of connecting road s as show n in the below grap hic from the stu d y ,
                        and it w ou ld inclu d e p ed estrian am m enities and streetscap e enhancem ents. The
                        effect on the US7 / VT104A intersection is that it w ou ld p rovid e a new street context
                        that w ou ld ju stify red u ced p osted sp eed s and increased bike and p ed estrian
                        accom m od ations. The street netw ork w ou ld id eally inclu d e a p u blic road w ay that
                        w ou ld form a fou rth leg to the US7 / VT104A intersection. As show n in the grap hic,
                        the intersection is a focal p oint of the Sou th Village Core, so im p rovem ents that are
                        p rop osed shou ld consid er the p otential long range context as envisioned by the
                        Sou th Village Core Strategic Plan.




                        2-4      Docum entation of Existing Cond itions
US 7 /VT 104A Int ersect ion & Bridge No. B-1 ov er Arrow head Mount ain Lake




2.4     Bridge B-1
                        Brisge B-1 is a short and narrow brid ge on VT104A that has both stru ctu ral and
                        fu nctional concerns that w arrant consid eration. The concerns are d ocu m ented in
                        general term s in the Pu rose and N eed Statem ent, and this section is m eant to p rovid e
                        ad d itional d etail on the existing cond itions.

                        Bridge Geometry
                        The existing brid ge sp an is 74 feet and the m easu red p avem ent w id th is
                        ap p roxim ately 20 feet and 7 inches. This is a severe constraint since the brid ge has
                        gu ard rail on both sid es. Large vehicles tend to cross the centerline in ord er to avoid
                        contact w ith the gu ard rail. The p avem ent w id ens on either sid e of the brid ge to
                        ap p roxim ately 26 feet. The brid ge ap p roaches are on short cau sew ays form ed by
                        filling Arrow head Mou ntain Lake. The below aerial p hoto d ep icts the brid ge site.




                        2-5     Docum entation of Existing Cond itions
US 7 /VT 104A Int ersect ion & Bridge No. B-1 ov er Arrow head Mount ain Lake




                        The below p hotos illu strate how the p avem ent narrow s at the brid ge. They also
                        show s that both ap p roaches are cu rved and the brid ge is on a sm all crest vertical
                        cu rve. N ote in the left p hoto that vegetation is beginning to encroach on sight lines
                        on the insid e of cu rves.




                        Traffic and Safety
                        The p osted sp eed throu gh the brid ge site is 50 MPH . Low er ad visory sp eed s are
                        p osted on sp ecific cu rves, bu t the brid ge falls w ithin an area w here sp eed s are
                        generally observed in the 50's.

                        The 2011 Average Annu al Daily Traffic w as 4300 vehicles p er d ay throu gh the brid ge
                        site. Traffic is com p rised of ap p roxim ately 95% p assenger vehicles and 5% tru cks.

                        Crash history on the brid ge has m ostly inclu d ed sid esw ip e accid ents, one inclu d ing a
                        school bu s and a tru ck in 2013. The narrow brid ge, the high sp eed s and the d eficient
                        gu ard rail heighten safety concerns above w hat t he crash history su ggests.

                        On Ju ne 6, 2013 VTrans organized and com p leted a road safety au d it that inclu d ed
                        the brid ge site. The d etailed observations and recom m end ations are inclu d ed in the
                        ap p end ix.

                        Structural Concerns
                        The latest VTrans brid ge ratin g yield ed a Su fficiency Rating of 72 (w ith a score of 100
                        being the best). This is not a p oor enou gh rating for the brid ge to be consid ered a
                        p riority by VTrans. The su p p orting steel m em bers ap p ear to be in fair cond ition;
                        how ever the gu ard rail system is in p oor cond ition and the d eck ap p ears to have
                        areas of concern. The gu ard rail is of p articu lar concern since it m ay not contain an
                        errant vehicle on the narrow brid ge. The existing concrete p osts are in variou s stages
                        of d isrep air and in som e locations the steel beam rails have becom e d etached from
                        the p osts. The below p hotos illu strate som e of the areas of concern.




                        2-6      Docum entation of Existing Cond itions
US 7 /VT 104A Int ersect ion & Bridge No. B-1 ov er Arrow head Mount ain Lake




                        2-7     Docum entation of Existing Cond itions
US 7 /VT 104A Int ersect ion & Bridge No. B-1 ov er Arrow head Mount ain Lake




                                                                                                              3
                                                           Evaluation of Solution
                                                                     Alternatives


3.1     Introduction
                        The observations from the d ata collection p hase, com bined w ith p u blic inp u t, help
                        shap e the typ es of d esign solu tions that w ill be p ossible or necessary to satisfy the
                        p roject Pu rp ose and N eed Statem ent. This chap ter id entifies and evalu ates
                        concep tu al d esign solu tions that cou ld be em p loyed to ad d ress the p roject Pu rp ose
                        and N eed .

                        This study is primarily focused on long term solutions at the intersection and the
                        bridge. Short and mid-term solutions, as described in detail in the VTrans Road
                        Safety Audit Review document are also possible and encouraged.




3.2     Intersection Improvement Alternatives

        Alternative 1. N o Build
                        This alternative w ou ld not involve constru ction activities and is inclu d ed for
                        com p arison p u rp oses only since "d o nothing" is alw ays an alternative. This
                        alternative w ou ld only inclu d e continu ed m aintenance.

                        Ad vantages:
                             Low est cost
                             Zero Im p act to resou rce areas an d abu tting p rop erties

                        Disad vantages:
                             N o safety, op erational, or bike and p ed estrian benefits
                             Does not su p p ort the Sou th Village Core Ma ster Plan

                        Discu ssion:
                        This alternative falls w ell short of satisfying the p roject Pu rp ose and N eed .




                        3-1      Evaluation of Solution Alternatives
US 7 /VT 104A Int ersect ion & Bridge No. B-1 ov er Arrow head Mount ain Lake




        Alternative 2. Signalized Intersection
                        This bu ild alternative w ou ld install an actu ated traffic signal to control the US7,
                        VT104A and Peop le's Bank Drive ap p roaches. The im p rovem ents w ou ld inclu d e
                        geom etric m od ifications as d ep icted on the below p lan.




                        Ad vantages:
                             Low cost
                             Minim al Im p acts to resou rce areas an d abu tting p rop erties

                        Disad vantages:




                        N ote that this p lan w ou ld close the slip lane from VT104A to US7. It w ou ld also
                        recom m end the creation of a circu lating d rivew ay at the bank so p atrons w ou ld enter
                        and exit throu gh the signal. The traffic signal is exp ected to op erate at Level of
                        Service C (Good ) in the d esign year.

                        Ad vantages:
                             Provid es conventional and ad ju stable traffic control
                             Minim al im p act to abu tting p rop erties and little d isru p tion d u ring
                                constru ction
                             Can accom m od ate the fu tu re Sou th Village Core Master Plan im p rovem ents
                             Can accom m od ate the ad d ition of sid ew alks and crossw alks at all fou r
                                corners of the intersection (thou gh not all are show n d u e to cu rrent lack of
                                d estinations and continu ity)

                        Disad vantages:
                             Does little to calm traffic
                             Little op p ortu nity to im p rove com m u nity char acter

                        Discu ssion:
                        This alternative w ill satisfy the p rim ary objectives of the p roject Pu rp ose and N eed ,
                        w hich are to im p rove safety, op erations and bike and p ed estrian accom m od ations . It




                        3-2     Evaluation of Solution Alternatives
US 7 /VT 104A Int ersect ion & Bridge No. B-1 ov er Arrow head Mount ain Lake



                        falls short on serving as an attractive gatew ay to the fu tu re Sou th Village Core
                        how ever.


        Alternative 3. Construct Roundabout
                        This bu ild alternative w ou ld install one-lane m od ern rou nd abou t to control the US7,
                        VT104A and Peop le's Bank Drive ap p roaches. The im p rovem ents w ou ld inclu d e
                        geom etric m od ifications as d ep icted on the below p lan.




                        N ote that this alternative w ou ld also close the slip lane from VT104A to US7. It
                        w ou ld also recom m end the creation of a circu lating d rivew ay at the bank so p atrons
                                                               th
                        w ou ld enter and exit throu gh the 4 leg of the rou nd abou t. The rou nd abou t is also
                        exp ected to op erate at Level of Service C (Good ) in the d esign year.

                        Ad vantages:
                             Provid es sm ooth traffic control d u ring all hou rs
                             Minim al im p act to abu tting p rop erties
                             Can accom m od ate the fu tu re Sou th Village Core Master Plan im p rovem ents
                             Can accom m od ate the ad d ition of sid ew alks and crossw alks at all fou r
                                corners of the intersection (thou gh not all are show n d u e to cu rrent lack of
                                d estinations and continu ity)
                             H ighest safety im p rovem ent is exp ected
                             Provid es op p ortu nities for aesthetic im p rovem ents and gatew ay / focal p oint

                        Disad vantages:
                             H ighest initial cost




                        3-3     Evaluation of Solution Alternatives
US 7 /VT 104A Int ersect ion & Bridge No. B-1 ov er Arrow head Mount ain Lake




                        Discu ssion:
                        This alternative w ill satisfy the p rim ary objectives of the p roject Pu rp ose and N eed ,
                        w hich are to im p rove safety, op erations and bike and p ed estrian accom m od ations.
                        Rou nd abou ts are know n to greatly red u ce the severity of crashes becau se the
                        op erating sp eed s are significantly low er than throu gh signalized intersections.
                        Rou nd abou ts also tend to red u ce the crash rate since the nu m ber of p otential conflict
                        p oints w ou ld be red u ced . A rou nd abou t at this location m ay also have a p ositive
                        safety effect on the ad jacent US7 road w ay segm ents that are cu rrently classified as
                        high crash sections. This is d u e to the overall traffic calm ing effect com p ared to the
                        existing free-flow cond ition as w ell as the Alternative 2 traffic signal.

                        The rou nd abou t also p rovid es an op p ortu nity to create an a ttractive gatew ay or
                        central focal p oint that w ill w ork w ell w ith the fu tu re Sou th Village Core.
                        Rou nd abou ts are know n to accom m od ate p ed estrians very w ell and this is
                        com p atible w ith the long-term goal of m aking the Sou th Village Core m ore
                        p ed estrian friend ly.



                        Intersection Evaluation Matrix:
                        The below evalu ation m atrix p rovid es an at-a-glance su m m ary of the three
                        alternatives that are being consid ered .




                        3-4     Evaluation of Solution Alternatives
US 7 /VT 104A Int ersect ion & Bridge No. B-1 ov er Arrow head Mount ain Lake




3.3     Bridge Alternatives


        Alternative 1. N o Build
                        This alternative w ou ld not involve constru ction activities and is inclu d ed for
                        com p arison p u rp oses only since "d o nothing" is alw ays an alternative. Thi s
                        alternative w ou ld only inclu d e continu ed m aintenance and p erhap s the short term
                        im p rovem ents recom m end ed by the VTrans Road w ay Safety Au d it Review .

                        Ad vantages:
                             Low est initial cost
                             Zero Im p act to resou rce areas and abu tting p rop erties

                        Disad vantages:
                             N o safety, op erational, or bike and p ed estrian benefits
                             Continu ed rep air costs

                        Discu ssion:
                        This alternative falls w ell short of satisfying the p roject Pu rp ose and N eed .



        Alternative 2. Widen Bridge and Approaches
                        This bu ild alternative w ou ld increase the brid ge and cau sew ay w id th to 11' lanes and
                        4' shou ld ers as p er gu id ance in the Verm ont State Stand ard s. The existing brid ge
                        sp an length w ou ld be m aintained and it is likely that the steel brid ge beam s w ou ld
                        be rep laced d u e to their age. The im p rovem ents w ou ld inclu d e geom etric
                        m od ifications as d ep icted on the below concep t p lan.




                        3-5      Evaluation of Solution Alternatives
US 7 /VT 104A Int ersect ion & Bridge No. B-1 ov er Arrow head Mount ain Lake



                        This alternative w ou ld resu lt in lake im p acts from the p rop osed road w ay and brid ge
                        w id ening. It m ay be p ossible to increase the vertical clearance over the lake if the
                        brid ge beam s are rep laced , bu t this w ou ld generally resu lt in m ore lake im p acts d u e
                        to the resu lting w id er fill slop es, and a crest cu rve at the brid ge is not very d esirable.
                        Phasing the constru ction m ay requ ire a tem p orary brid ge off to one sid e since the
                        existing brid ge is so narrow . Alternating one-w ay traffic w ill p robably be necessary
                        d u ring constru ction becau se of the tight environm ental constraints.

                        Ad vantages:
                             Greatly im p roved road and brid ge w id th that w ill accom m od ate vehicles ,
                                bikes and p ed estrians
                             N ew d eck and railing system s w ill im p rove safety and red u ce cu rrent rep air
                                costs
                             Only m od erate overall costs and lake im p acts

                        Disad vantages:
                             Tem p orary Environm ental and traffic im p acts d u ring constru ction

                        Discu ssion:
                        This alternative satisfies the p roject Pu rp ose and N eed . Environm ental im p acts cou ld
                        be red u ced by constru cting retaining w alls along the cau sew ay, bu t at great cost. The
                        4' shou ld ers cou ld be exp and ed to 5' to better accom m od ated bikes and p ed estrians
                        on the brid ge and cau sew ay.

        Alternative 3. Widen and lengthen Bridge
                        This bu ild alternative w ou ld increase the brid ge and cau sew ay w id th to 30 feet as
                        p er gu id ance in the Verm ont State Stand ard s. The existing brid ge sp an length w ou ld
                        be greatly increased to ap p roxim ately 350'. The im p rovem ents w ou ld inclu d e
                        geom etric m od ifications as d ep icted on the below concep t p lan.




                        3-6      Evaluation of Solution Alternatives
US 7 /VT 104A Int ersect ion & Bridge No. B-1 ov er Arrow head Mount ain Lake



                        This alternative w ou ld resu lt in a red u ction in p erm anent lake bottom im p acts
                        becau se the cau sew ay w ou ld be greatly shortened . It m ay be p ossible to increase the
                        vertical clearance over the lake u nd er this d esign. Phasing the constru ction m ay
                        requ ire an alignm ent shift and / or over w id ening the brid ge to m aintain at least one
                        lane of traffic at all tim es d u ring constru ction.




                        Ad vantages:
                             Greatly im p roved road and brid ge w id th that w ill accom m od ate vehicles ,
                                bikes and p ed estrians
                             N ew d eck and railing system s w ill im p rove safety and red u ce cu rrent rep air
                                costs
                             Red u ced p erm anent lake bottom im p acts

                        Disad vantages:
                             H igh initial cost
                             Greater long term m aintenance cost d u e to the large am ou nt of brid ge
                                stru ctu re over w ater

                        Discu ssion:
                        This alternative satisfies the p roject Pu rp ose and N eed . Environm ental im p acts
                        w ou ld be red u ced by rem oving the cau sew ay and rep lacing it w ith brid ge sp ans, bu t
                        w ith great initial and long term costs.

                        Bridge Evaluation Matrix:
                        The evalu ation m atrix on the next p age p rovid es an at-a-glance su m m ary of the three
                        alternatives that are being consid ered . It shou ld be noted that a m od erate sp an
                        brid ge op tion, one that w ou ld have a sp an som ew here in betw een the short and long
                        sp ans of Alternatives 2 and 3 is another p otentially viable solu tion. The ad vantage
                        m ight be that the lake bottom im p acts d u e to w id er cau sew ay fills cou ld be
                        com p ensated for by lengthening the brid ge and rem oving an equ al am ou nt of
                        cau sew ay.




                        3-7     Evaluation of Solution Alternatives
US 7 /VT 104A Int ersect ion & Bridge No. B-1 ov er Arrow head Mount ain Lake




                        3-8     Evaluation of Solution Alternatives
US 7 /VT 104A Int ersect ion & Bridge No. B-1 ov er Arrow head Mount ain Lake




                                                                                                               4
                              Summary and Recommendations


                        This intersection and brid ge im p rovem ent alternatives consid ered as p art of this
                        stu d y w ere p resented to the p u blic and the overw helm ing feed back w as that the
                        existing need s and d eficiencies need to be ad d ressed soon, and the solu tions that are
                        selected are alm ost second ary becau se of the p ressing need s. The long term solu tion
                        alternatives d escribed in this stu d y are not cu rrently fu nd ed and are not on State
                        p riority lists. The N orthw est Regional Planning Com m ission transp ortation ad visory
                        com m ittee is therefore hop ing to ad d the brid ge p roject as a critical need , recently
                        ranking it first in the region d u e to safety concerns.

                        In the interim , the near and m id -term recom m end ations from the VTrans Road
                        Safety Au d it Review shou ld be im p lem ented to the extent p ossible. Those
                        im p rovem ents inclu d e low cost im p rovem ents su ch as enhanced signing and
                        p avem ent m arkings as w ell as m inor geom etric m od ifications, su ch as rou nd ing the
                        northeast corner at the US7/ VT104A intersection to allow tru cks to tu rn right easier
                        from the right sid e of the w estbou nd ap p roach.

                        Intersection Recommendations
                        The Alternative 3 ­ Rou nd abou t solu tion is recom m end ed as the long term
                        intersection im p rovem ent alternative. This is p rim arily becau se of its traffic calm ing
                        attribu tes, its su p erior safety enhancem ents and its com p arable traffic op erations
                        w hen com p ared to the Traffic Signal alternative. The rou nd abou t also p rovid es better
                        streetscap e and gatew ay op p ortu nities, and it w ou ld be m ost com p atible w ith the
                        Georgia Sou th Village Strategic Plan.

                        Bridge Recommendations
                        The Alternative 2 ­ Wid en Brid ge and Cau sew ay alternative is the recom m end ed
                        brid ge im p rovem ent alternative. This is p rim arily becau se it ad d resses the p rim ary
                        d eficiency, w hich is the brid ge and cau sew ay w id th, w hile m aintaining the existing
                        sp an length and therefore controlling costs.

                        Both of these alternatives are influ enced by their local and regional context. The
                        intersection falls w ithin a d esignated fu tu re village core, and the brid ge is located on
                        an im p ortant rou te that is exp ected to exp erience continu ed grow th in traffic d u e to
                        com m u ter p atterns and d evelop m ent trend s in ou tlying com m u nities. The solu tions
                        shou ld therefore be resp onsive to the changes that are forecast.

                        This feasibility stu d y p rovid es the tools for the com m u nity to take ad d itional step s
                        tow ard im p lem enting the p referred solu tions. Cost estim ates, resou rce im p acts and
                        p rop erty need s w ill be id entified in greater d etail in su bsequ ent p roject d evelop m ent
                        p hases. This stu d y is intend ed to lay the fou nd ation for those next step s.




                        4-1      Sum m ary
US 7 /VT 104A Int ersect ion & Bridge No. B-1 ov er Arrow head Mount ain Lake




                                                                                Appendix




A-      Traffic and Accident Summary Memorandum




                        A-1     Append ix
        Transportation
Land Development
   Environmental
            S e r v i c e s


                                                                                                                            Six Bed ford Farm s Drive, Suite 607
                                                                                                                         Bed ford , N ew H am pshire 03110-6532
                                                                                                                                                  603 644-0888
                                                                                                                                             FAX 603 644-2385


Memorandum           To:                                                                            Date:    Sep tem ber 24, 2012


                                                                                              Project No.:   57512.00

                  From :      N ick Sand ers, P.E.                                                    Re:    Existing Traffic and Crash Su m m ary
                              Senior Project Engineer                                                        Mem orand u m


                Vanasse H angen Bru stlin, Inc. (VH B) has com p leted an existing cond itions evalu ation for the US Rou te 7
                / VT Rou te 104A intersection feasibility stu d y in Georgia, VT. This m em orand u m inclu d es the
                follow ing:


                            A d escrip tion of the existing road w ay netw ork in the vicinity p roject intersection ;
                            A su m m ary of the crash d ata at the p roject intersection ;
                            A d escrip tion of the traffic volu m e netw ork d evelop m ent ; and
                            An evalu ation of traffic op erations at the p roject intersection.


                EXISTIN G CON D ITION S
                US Rou te 7 (Ethan Allen H ighw ay) p rovid es north-sou th travel throu gh the w estern p ortion of Verm ont.
                Locally, US Rou te 7 is a resid ential and com m ercial corrid or that connects the Tow n of Georgia w ith St.
                Albans to the north and p oints in Chittend en Cou nty to the sou th. Within the p roject area US Rou te 7 is
                a tw o lane road w ay w ith (one travel lane in each d irection) w ith a p osted sp eed lim it of 40 m iles p er
                hou r.


                VT Rou te 104A (H ighbrid ge Road ) p rovid es an east-w est link betw een I-89/ US Rou te 7 in Georgia w ith
                VT Rou te 104/ VT Rou te 128 in Fairfax. VT Rou te 104A is p rim arily u sed as a com m u ter rou te. N ear the
                intersection of US Rou te 7, VT Rou te 104A is a tw o lane road w ay (one travel lane in each d irection) w ith
                a p osted sp eed lim it of 40 m iles p er hou r.


                VT Rou te 104A and the exit only d rivew ay from the Peop le's Tru st Com p any (bank) intersect US Rou te 7
                from the east and w est resp ectively to form a fou r -w ay u nsignalized intersection. Althou gh there is no
                strip ing on the VT Rou te 104A ap p roach , this w estbou nd ap p roach d oes op erate as tw o lane ap p roach
                (sep arate left and right tu rn lanes). The bank exit only d rivew ay p rovid es a single left/ throu gh/ right
                lane. US Rou te 7 p rovid es a single shared throu gh/ right lane from the sou th and a left -tu rn lane and a
                throu gh lane from the north. VT Rou te 104A and the bank d rivew ay op erate u nd er stop control w hile
                US Rou te 7 has the right of w ay. A one-w ay access road bisects the northeastern corner of the
                intersection p rovid ing access and egress to tw o bu sinesses (Movem ent Center (d ance) and Interstate
                Au to Service.




                 \ \ vhb\ proj\ Verm ont\ 57512.00\ d ocs\ m em os\ traffic 09-04-2012.d oc
Date: Septem ber 24, 2012                                                                                               2
Project No.: 57512.00

Tu rning m ovem ent traffic cou nts cond u cted by VTrans on Au gu st 4 and 5, 2008 at the p roject
intersection of US Rou te 7 at VT Rou te 104A d u ring the w eekd ay m orning and evening p eak p eriod s
w ere u sed as the basis for this evalu ation . Cop ies of the traffic volu m e cou nt d ata are p rovid ed in the
Ap p end ix.



CRASH SUMMARY
Crash d ata p rovid ed by VTrans w ere review ed and evalu ated for the p roject intersection of US Rou te 7
and VT Rou te 104A. The d etailed crash d ata cover s the p eriod from Janu ary 1, 2007 throu gh Decem ber
31, 2011.


The intersection of US Rou te 7 and VT Rou te 104A exp erienced 14 crashes over the five-year p eriod for
an average of ju st u nd er 3 crashes p er year. Of these 14 crashes, 7 (50 p ercent) w ere sam e d irection
sid esw ip e crashes, 2 (14 p ercent) w ere rear end crashes, 2 (14 p ercent) w ere left-tu rn broad sid e crashes, 1
(7 p ercent) w as a left-tu rn head on crash, 1 w as a throu gh m ovem ent broad sid e crash , and 1 w as an
u nid entified or u nknow n crash . There w ere 4 crashes that resu lted in p ersonal inju ry and no fatal
crashes rep orted d u ring this five-year p eriod .


This evalu ation d eterm ined that the p roject intersection is not a H igh Crash Location (H CL) intersection
as the actu al/ critical crash ratios for the intersection w as less than 1.00. Ad d itionally, the H CL listings
on VTrans w ebsite (2006 to 2010) by intersection and section w ere review ed for com p leteness. This d ata
confirm ed that the p roject intersection is not a H CL intersection, bu t that the section of US Rou te 7
ad jacent to VT Rou te 104A (m ile m arker 1.046 ­ 1.346) is classified as a H CL section. A d etailed
su m m ary table of the crash d ata inclu d ing crash rates and d eterm ination of H CL is inclu d ed in the
Ap p end ix.



TRAFFIC N ETWORKS
The w eekd ay m orning and evening p eak p eriod s w ere selected as the critical hou rs for analysis
p u rp oses. The 2008 p eak hou r traffic volu m es cou nts w ere p rojected to the op ening year (2016) and the
fu tu re d esign year (2036) for evalu ation p u rp oses.


Since it is im p ractical to d esign for the highest volu m e encou ntered d u ring the year, VTrans gu id elines
recom m end a com p rom ise betw een cap acity and cost. Design H ou rly Volu m e (DH V) criteria allow
                                    th
road s to be d esigned for the 30 highest hou rly volu m e of the year. H istorical d ata fr om VTrans traffic
cou nt station on US Rou te 7 in Georgia (P6F029 - located 1.7 m iles north of I-89) w as review ed to
establish an ap p rop riate DH V cond ition. The m ajority of the top 30 highest hou rs occu rred d u ring the
w eekd ay evening p eak hou r; ind icating that a w eekd ay evening DH V cond ition is ap p rop riate. The
w eekd ay m orning p eak hou r w as ad ju sted to reflect a p eak m onth cond ition. The follow ing DH V and
seasonal ad ju stm ents w ere m ad e to the raw tu rning m ovem ent cou nts:


           A 1.07 DH V ad ju stm ent w as ap p lied to the Au gu st 2008 w eekd ay evening d ata; and
           A 1.30 p eak m onth ad ju stm ent w as ap p lied to the Au gu st 2008 w eekd ay m orning d ata.


Detailed calcu lations for the w eekd ay evening DH V ad ju stm ent and the w eekd ay m orning p eak m onth
ad ju stm ent are p rovid ed in the Ap p end ix.




    \ \ vhb\ proj\ Verm ont\ 57512.00\ d ocs\ m em os\ traffic 09-04-2012.d oc
Date: Septem ber 24, 2012                                                                                              3
Project No.: 57512.00

Traffic grow th is a fu nction of exp ected land d evelop m ent in the region. To p red ict a rat e at w hich
traffic can be exp ected to grow d u ring the forecast p eriod , historical traffic grow th and p lanned area
d evelop m ents w ere exam ined . The regression analysis for the u rban highw ay grou p cond u cted by
VTrans su ggests that regional traffic grow th w ill be flat (no grow th). H ow ever a review of the closest
continu ou s traffic cou nt station in Georgia (P6F029) revealed that volu m es w ill grow at abou t 0.4 p ercent
p er year over the next tw enty years. Conversations w ith the N orthw est Regional Planning Com m ission
d id not reveal any sp ecific d evelop m ents in the im m ed iate vicinity of the site that w ou ld im p act traffic
p rojections. H ow ever, it the Planning Com m ission noted that traffic grow th w ou ld likely be higher than
the 0.4 p ercent (annu ally) ind icated by the VTrans regression analysis becau se of exp ected continu ed
grow th in the nearby tow n of Faifax and the change in zoning of the Georgia Sou th Village Distract to
high d ensity. Therefore, it w as conclu d ed that an average annu al grow th rate of 1.0 p ercent w ou ld
p rovid e a conservative assessm ent of traffic grow th in the region and accou nt for any other nearby
d evelop m ent p rojects that m ay occu r . VTrans regression analysis is p rovid ed in the Ap p end ix.


The 2016 and 2036 traffic volu m es w ere d evelop ed by ap p ly ing the average annu al grow th rate of 1.0
p ercent p er year to the 2008 DH V/ seasonally ad ju sted p eak hou r traffic volu m es. The 2016 and 2036
w eekd ay evening DH V and w eekd ay m orning p eak hou r traffic volu m es netw orks are p rovid ed in the
Ap p end ix.


TRAFFIC AN ALYSES
Levels of service (LOS) w ere calcu lated based on the criteria p u blished in the 2000 H ighw ay Cap acity
         1
Manu al . Level of service is the term that d efines the cond itions that m ay occu r on a given road w ay or at
an intersection w hen accom m od ating variou s traffic volu m e load s. Levels of service range from A to F
w ith LOS A rep resenting the best op erating cond itions and LOS F rep resenting the w orst. Cop ies of the
level of service calcu lations have been p rovid ed in the Ap p end ix.

Intersection cap acity analyses w ere p erform ed for the 2016 op ening year, the 2036 N o Bu ild , and 2036
Bu ild alternatives d u ring the w eekd ay m orning p eak hou r cond ition and the w eekd ay evening DH V
cond ition. The resu lts of the analysis ind icate that the m inor street ap p roaches of Rou te 104A and the
bank d rivew ay op erate at a LOS E and F resp ectively in the 2016 op ening year N o Bu ild cond ition .
Withou t any im p rovem ents these m inor street ap p roaches are exp ected to op erate at a LOS F w ith long
d elays in the 2036 fu tu re year cond ition. A review p eak hou r w arrant (Warrant 3) from the 2009 Ed ition
of the Manu al on Uniform Traffic Control Devices ind icates that a signal is w arranted in both the
op ening year and the fu tu re year cond itions. With a traffic signal and ad d itional tu rn lanes (northbou nd
left-tu rn lane and sep arate w estbou nd left and right -tu rn lanes) this intersection is exp ected to op erate at
a LOS C or better throu gh the fu tu re year of 2036. Ad d itionally, a single lane rou nd abou t w as evalu ated ,
w hich is exp ected to op erate accep tably throu gh the fu tu re year w ith an overall LOS C. Unsignalized ,
signalized , and rou nd abou t cap acity analysis are p rovid ed in the ap p end ix.




    1
        H ighw ay Capacity Manual, Fed eral H ighw ay Ad m inistration, Transportation Research Board , 2000.



    \ \ vhb\ proj\ Verm ont\ 57512.00\ d ocs\ m em os\ traffic 09-04-2012.d oc
                                                            Vtrans
Counter: T1199                                                                                           File Name        : 7-31am08
Counted By: C Smith                                                                                      Site Code        : 30608705
Weather: Sunny                                                                                           Start Date       : 8/5/2008
Town: 7-31 Georgia                                                                                       Page No          :1

US 7 & VT 104A

                                                 Groups Printed- Auto - Medium - Heavy
                        US 7 from I89          VT 104A from Fairfax          US 7 from Milton         Bank Drive-Up Exit
                          From North                 From East                 From South                  From West
      Start Time    Right     Thru      Left   Right     Thru     Left    Right     Thru      Left   Right     Thru      Left   Int. Total
          Factor      1.0      1.0       1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0       1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0       1.0
       06:00 AM         0       36        16     30         0        2        8        50        0       0        0         0        142
       06:15 AM         0       32        28     47         0        6        3        76        0       0        0         0        192
       06:30 AM         0       32        62     43         0        5        9        67        0       0        0         0        218
       06:45 AM         0       44        60     45         0        5       13        79        0       0        0         0        246
            Total       0      144      166     165         0       18       33      272         0       0        0         0        798

       07:00 AM        0       33        17      64         0        9        4       92        0       0         0        0         219
       07:15 AM        0       49        23      65         0        8        9       94        0       0         0        0         248
       07:30 AM        0       37        30      64         0        7        6       73        0       0         0        0         217
       07:45 AM        0       26        33      62         0        5        6       53        0       0         0        0         185
           Total       0      145       103     255         0       29       25      312        0       0         0        0         869

       08:00 AM        0       42        16      45         0        6       11       73        0       0         0        0         193
       08:15 AM        0       40        20      33         0       10        9       59        0       0         0        0         171
       08:30 AM        0       45        10      48         0        2        6       55        0       0         0        0         166
       08:45 AM        0       33        17      41         0        9        9       32        0       0         0        0         141
           Total       0      160        63     167         0       27       35      219        0       0         0        0         671

       09:00 AM        0       38        15      25         0       12       14       51        0       0         0        0         155
       09:15 AM        0       33        12      29         0        3        8       41        0       0         0        0         126
       09:30 AM        0       26        13      23         0       11        3       55        0       0         0        0         131
       09:45 AM        0       43        12      24         0        4       10       38        0       0         0        0         131
           Total       0      140        52     101         0       30       35      185        0       0         0        0         543

       10:00 AM        0       35        16      26         0        4        9       47        0       0         0        0         137
       10:15 AM        0       43        14      24         0        4       11       45        0       0         0        0         141
       10:30 AM        0       36        18      24         0        9        6       37        0       0         0        0         130
       10:45 AM        0       54        22      15         0        6       14       47        0       0         0        0         158
           Total       0      168        70      89         0       23       40      176        0       0         0        0         566

       11:00 AM        0       46        16      30         0        9        8       62        0       2         0        1         174
       11:15 AM        0       46        22      20         0       10        8       46        0       0         0        0         152
       11:30 AM        0       49        14      22         0        7       14       32        0       0         0        2         140
       11:45 AM        0       47        21      24         0        6       17       31        0       0         1        0         147
           Total       0      188        73      96         0       32       47      171        0       2         1        3         613

     Grand Total       0      945       527    873          0      159      215     1335        0       2         1         3       4060
      Apprch %         0     64.2       35.8   84.6         0     15.4     13.9      86.1       0    33.3      16.7       50
        Total %        0     23.3         13   21.5         0      3.9       5.3     32.9       0       0         0       0.1
           Auto        0     889        495    835          0     145       207     1282        0       2         1         3       3859
         % Auto        0     94.1       93.9   95.6         0     91.2     96.3       96        0     100      100       100           95
        Medium         0       40        14     25          0       12         5      34        0       0         0         0        130
      % Medium         0      4.2        2.7    2.9         0      7.5       2.3      2.5       0       0         0         0         3.2
         Heavy         0       16        18     13          0        2         3      19        0       0         0         0          71
       % Heavy         0      1.7        3.4    1.5         0      1.3       1.4      1.4       0       0         0         0         1.7
                                         Vtrans
                                                                                     File Name               : 7-31am08
                                                                                     Site Code               : 30608705
                                                                                     Start Date              : 8/5/2008
                                                                                     Page No                 :2
                                               US 7 from I89
                                        Out          In      Total
                                        2120       1384       3504
                                          59           54      113
                                          32           34       66
                                        2211       1472       3683


                                             0  889         495
                                             0    40         14
                                             0    16         18
                                             0  945         527
                                         Right Thru        Left
                      6
                      0
                      0
                      6
                  Total




                                                                                   Out
                                                                                    VT 104A from Fairfax
                                                                                    743


                                                                                    703
                              3
                              0
                              0
                              3




                                                                     Right Thru
 Bank Drive-Up Exit




                          Left




                                                                                     21
                                                                                     19
                                                                       873


                                                                       835
                                                North




                                                                        13
                                                                        25
                                         8/5/2008 06:00 AM
             6
             0
             0
             6


                                    1
                                    0
                                    0
                                    1
                          Right Thru
          In




                                         8/5/2008 11:45 AM




                                                                                           1032



                                                                                             In
                                                                                              980
                                                                                               15
                                                                                               37
                                                                               0
                                                                               0
                                                                               0
                                                                               0
                                         Auto
                              2
                              0
                              0
                              2




                                         Medium




                                                                     Left
    0
    0
    0
    0




                                                                      159


                                                                      145
Out




                                                                                                     Total
                                         Heavy




                                                                       12



                                                                                                      1775


                                                                                                      1683
                                                                         2




                                                                                                        36
                                                                                                        56
                                          Left       Thru Right
                                                 0   1282   207
                                                 0      34    5
                                                 0      19    3
                                                 0   1335   215


                                        1036       1489      2525
                                          52          39       91
                                          18          22       40
                                        1106       1550      2656
                                        Out         In      Total
                                            US 7 from Milton
                                                                 Vtrans
                                                                                                             File Name               : 7-31am08
                                                                                                             Site Code               : 30608705
                                                                                                             Start Date              : 8/5/2008
                                                                                                             Page No                 :3

                        US 7 from I89               VT 104A from Fairfax         US 7 from Milton          Bank Drive-Up Exit
                         From North                      From East                 From South                 From West
 Start Time Right Thru Left App. Total Right Thru Left App. Total Right Thru Left App. Total Right Thru Left App. Total                  Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 06:00 AM to 11:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 06:30 AM
    06:30 AM        0      32     62       94      43      0      5       48   9     67     0       76    0     0      0         0           218
    06:45 AM        0      44     60      104      45      0      5       50  13     79     0       92    0     0      0         0           246
    07:00 AM        0      33     17       50      64      0      9       73   4     92     0       96    0     0      0         0           219
    07:15 AM        0      49     23       72      65      0      8       73   9     94     0      103    0     0      0         0            248
 Total Volume       0    158     162      320    217       0     27     244   35   332      0      367    0     0      0         0           931
 % App. Total       0 49.4 50.6                 88.9       0 11.1            9.5 90.5       0             0     0      0
         PHF .000 .806 .653              .769 .835 .000 .750           .836 .673 .883 .000        .891 .000 .000 .000         .000          .939
         Auto       0    153     158      311    215       0     25     240   35   322      0      357    0     0      0         0           908
       % Auto       0 96.8 97.5          97.2 99.1         0 92.6      98.4  100 97.0       0     97.3    0     0      0         0          97.5
      Medium        0       3      2        5       1      0      2        3   0      8     0        8    0     0      0         0            16
   % Medium         0     1.9    1.2      1.6     0.5      0    7.4      1.2   0    2.4     0      2.2    0     0      0         0           1.7
        Heavy       0       2      2        4       1      0      0        1   0      2     0        2    0     0      0         0             7
     % Heavy        0     1.3    1.2      1.3     0.5      0      0      0.4   0    0.6     0      0.5    0     0      0         0           0.8

                                                                       US 7 from I89
                                                               Out           In      Total
                                                                537           311      848
                                                                   9            5       14
                                                                   3            4        7
                                                                549           320      869


                                                                     0  153         158
                                                                     0     3            2
                                                                     0     2            2
                                                                     0  158         162
                                                                 Right Thru        Left




                                                             Peak Hour Data
                                           0
                                           0
                                           0
                                           0
                                       Total




                                                                                                           Out
                                                                                                            VT 104A from Fairfax
                                                                                                            197


                                                                                                            193
                                                   0
                                                   0
                                                   0
                                                   0




                                                                                             Right Thru
                      Bank Drive-Up Exit




                                               Left




                                                                                               217


                                                                                               215



                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                               2




                                                                        North
                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                 1




                                                             Peak Hour Begins at 06:30 AM
                                  0
                                  0
                                  0
                                  0


                                                         0
                                                         0
                                                         0
                                                         0
                                               Right Thru
                               In




                                                                                                                     In
                                                                                                                     244


                                                                                                                      240




                                                             Auto
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                       0



                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                        3




                                                             Medium
                                                   0
                                                   0
                                                   0
                                                   0




                                                             Heavy
                                                                                             Left
                         0
                         0
                         0
                         0
                     Out




                                                                                                                             Total
                                                                                               27


                                                                                               25
                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                 2



                                                                                                                               441


                                                                                                                               433
                                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                                 5




                                                                  Left       Thru Right
                                                                         0    322    35
                                                                         0       8    0
                                                                         0       2    0
                                                                         0    332    35


                                                                178        357       535
                                                                   5         8        13
                                                                   2         2         4
                                                                185        367       552
                                                               Out        In       Total
                                                                   US 7 from Milton
                                                               Vtrans
Counter: T1199                                                                                                File Name      : 7-31pm08
Counted By: C Smith                                                                                           Site Code      : 30608705
Weather: Sunny                                                                                                Start Date     : 8/4/2008
Town: 7-31 Georgia                                                                                            Page No        :1

US 7 & VT 104A

                                                    Groups Printed- Auto - Medium - Heavy
                         US 7 from I89           VT 104A from Fairfax           US 7 from Milton           Bank Drive-Up Exit
                          From North                  From East                   From South                  From West
   Start Time    Right    Thru    Left Peds   Right Thru     Left Peds Right Thru         Left Peds    Right Thru     Left Peds Int. Total
       Factor      1.0     1.0     1.0  1.0     1.0    1.0    1.0     1.0   1.0     1.0    1.0   1.0     1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0
    12:00 PM         0      54      16    1      24      0     10       0    27      48      0     2       0      0      0      0     182
    12:15 PM         0      46      13    0      39      0     11       0    13      40      0     1       0      0      0      0     163
    12:30 PM         0      44      24    0      23      0      6       0    19      52      0     1       0      0      0      0     169
    12:45 PM         0      46      20    0      16      0     11       0     6      55      0     0       0      0      0      0     154
         Total       0     190      73    1    102       0     38       0    65    195       0     4       0      0      0      0     668

    01:00 PM        0       45     7     0      25      0      7      0      9     62      0      0       1      1      2      0      159
    01:15 PM        0       36    25     0      26      0      7      1      5     38      0      0       0      0      1      0      139
    01:30 PM        0       37    23     0      23      0      2      0      9     46      0      0       0      0      0      0      140
    01:45 PM        0       42    24     0      32      0      6      0     10     42      0      0       0      1      0      0      157
        Total       0      160    79     0     106      0     22      1     33    188      0      0       1      2      3      0      595

    02:00 PM        0       44    28     1      25      0      6      0     11     44      0      0       1      0      3      0      163
    02:15 PM        0       43    31     0      32      0     12      0      4     51      0      0       4      0      2      0      179
    02:30 PM        0       47    28     0      23      0      6      0      7     61      0      0       4      0      3      0      179
    02:45 PM        0       69    25     1      27      0      4      0      7     36      0      0       2      0      1      0      172
        Total       0      203   112     2     107      0     28      0     29    192      0      0      11      0      9      0      693

    03:00 PM        0       73    33     0      45      0      6      0      5     55      0      0       0      0      0      1      218
    03:15 PM        0       78    26     0      55      0     15      0     10     58      0      0       1      0      0      0      243
    03:30 PM        0       70    38     0      37      0      7      0      9     53      0      0       0      0      0      0      214
    03:45 PM        0       63    53     0      26      0      4      0      7     51      0      0       0      0      0      0      204
        Total       0      284   150     0     163      0     32      0     31    217      0      0       1      0      0      1      879

    04:00 PM        0       66    28     0      30      0     11      0      5     39      0      0       0      0      0      0      179
    04:15 PM        0       91    47     0      32      0     13      0     13     57      0      0       0      0      0      0      253
    04:30 PM        0      105    55     0      33      0     15      0     25     63      0      0       0      0      0      0      296
    04:45 PM        0      116    58     1      30      0     19      0      8     73      0      0       0      0      0      0      305
        Total       0      378   188     1     125      0     58      0     51    232      0      0       0      0      0      0     1033

    05:00 PM        0       89    51     0      39      0     16      0     15     77      0      0       0      0      0      0      287
    05:15 PM        0       98    61     0      27      0     14      0     18     80      0      0       0      0      0      0      298
    05:30 PM        0      103    60     0      48      0     11      1     14     70      0      0       0      0      0      0      307
    05:45 PM        0       83    45     0      37      0     11      0     14     62      0      1       0      0      0      0      253
        Total       0      373   217     0     151      0     52      1     61    289      0      1       0      0      0      0     1145

  Grand Total       0    1588     819     4    754      0    230       2    270   1313     0      5      13      2      12     1     5013
   Apprch %         0    65.9      34   0.2   76.5      0   23.3     0.2     17   82.7     0    0.3    46.4    7.1    42.9   3.6
     Total %        0    31.7    16.3   0.1     15      0    4.6       0    5.4   26.2     0    0.1     0.3      0     0.2     0
        Auto        0    1553     780     4    707      0    221       1    258   1287     0      5      13      2      11     1     4843
      % Auto        0    97.8    95.2   100   93.8      0   96.1      50   95.6     98     0    100     100    100    91.7   100     96.6
     Medium         0      24      29     0     32      0      9       1     10     22     0      0       0      0       1     0      128
   % Medium         0     1.5     3.5     0    4.2      0    3.9      50    3.7    1.7     0      0       0      0     8.3     0      2.6
      Heavy         0      11      10     0     15      0      0       0      2      4     0      0       0      0       0     0       42
    % Heavy         0     0.7     1.2     0      2      0      0       0    0.7    0.3     0      0       0      0       0     0      0.8
                                                Vtrans
                                                                                              File Name               : 7-31pm08
                                                                                              Site Code               : 30608705
                                                                                              Start Date              : 8/4/2008
                                                                                              Page No                 :2
                                                        US 7 from I89
                                              Out             In      Total
                                              2005          2337       4342
                                                55              53      108
                                                19              21       40
                                              2079          2411       4490


                                                 0 1553          780    4
                                                 0    24          29    0
                                                 0    11          10    0
                                                 0 1588          819    4
                                             Right Thru         Left Peds
                     27
                      1
                      0
                     28



                              1
                              0
                            11


                            12




                                                                              Right Thru
                  Total




                          Left




                                                                                754


                                                                                707


                                                                                            1091


                                                                                            1040
                                                                                            Out
                                                                                 15
                                                                                 32




                                                                                             VT 104A from Fairfax
 Bank Drive-Up Exit




                                                                                              12
                                                                                              39
                                                       North
                                         2
                                         0
                                         0
                                         2
                          Peds Right Thru




                                               8/4/2008 12:00 PM
            27
             1
             0
            28
          In




                                               8/4/2008 05:45 PM




                                                                                        0
                                                                                        0
                                                                                        0
                                                                                        0




                                                                                                      In
                                                                                                      986


                                                                                                       929
                                                                                                        15
                                                                                                        42
                                  13
                                   0
                                   0
                                  13




                                                                              Left Peds
                                               Auto




                                                                               230


                                                                               221
                                               Medium




                                                                                  0
                                                                                  9
    0
    0
    0
    0
Out




                                                                                                              Total
                                               Heavy
                             1
                             0
                             0
                             1




                                                                                                               2077


                                                                                                               1969
                                                                                                                 27
                                                                                                                 81
                                                                                      2
                                                                                      0
                                                                                      1
                                                                                      1
                                             Left       Thru Right Peds
                                                    0   1287   258    5
                                                    0      22   10    0
                                                    0       4    2    0
                                                    0   1313   270    5


                                              1787       1550      3337
                                                33          32       65
                                                11           6       17
                                              1831       1588      3419
                                              Out         In      Total
                                                  US 7 from Milton
                                                                               Vtrans
                                                                                                                                               File Name                   : 7-31pm08
                                                                                                                                               Site Code                   : 30608705
                                                                                                                                               Start Date                  : 8/4/2008
                                                                                                                                               Page No                     :3

                      US 7 from I89                VT 104A from Fairfax           US 7 from Milton                                           Bank Drive-Up Exit
                       From North                       From East                    From South                                                  From West
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                        App. Total   Right    Thru Left Peds App. Total            Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 12:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
 04:45 PM      0 116       58      1    175     30     0   19     0      49    8   73     0     0                            81         0           0          0       0      0       305
 05:00 PM      0     89    51      0    140     39     0   16     0      55   15   77     0     0                            92         0           0          0       0      0       287
 05:15 PM      0     98     61     0    159     27     0   14     0      41   18   80     0     0                            98         0           0          0       0      0       298
 05:30 PM      0 103       60      0    163     48     0   11     1      60   14   70     0     0                          84           0           0          0       0      0       307
 Total Volume  0 406 230           1    637 144        0   60     1     205   55 300      0     0                         355           0           0          0       0      0     1197
 % App. Total  0 63.7 36.1 0.2                70.2     0 29.3   0.5         15.5 84.5     0     0                                0    0    0    0
     PHF .000 .875 .943 .250                    .910 .750 .000 .789 .250                 .854 .764 .938 .000 .000        .906 .000 .000 .000 .000                           .000    .975
     Auto   0 405 228      1                     634 140     0   58    1                  199   55 299     0    0         354    0    0    0    0                              0    1187
   % Auto   0 99.8 99.1 100                     99.5 97.2    0 96.7 100                  97.1 100 99.7     0    0        99.7    0    0    0    0                              0    99.2
   Medium   0    0    2    0                       2    2    0    2    0                    4    0    0    0    0           0    0    0    0    0                              0       6
 % Medium
    Heavy      0     1         0           0      1        2       0   0       0            2      0      1   0   0          1          0           0          0       0      0          4
  % Heavy      0   0.2         0           0    0.2      1.4       0   0       0          1.0      0    0.3   0   0        0.3          0           0          0       0      0        0.3

                                                                                       US 7 from I89
                                                                             Out             In      Total
                                                                              439             634     1073
                                                                                 2              2        4
                                                                                 3              1        4
                                                                              444             637     1081


                                                                               0  405            228    1
                                                                               0     0              2   0
                                                                               0     1              0   0
                                                                               0  406            230    1
                                                                           Right Thru           Left Peds




                                                                           Peak Hour Data
                                            0
                                            0
                                            0
                                            0


                                                    0
                                                    0
                                                    0
                                                    0




                                                                                                                      Right Thru
                                        Total




                                                Left




                                                                                                                        144


                                                                                                                        140




                                                                                                                                             Out
                                                                                                                                              VT 104A from Fairfax
                                                                                                                                              285


                                                                                                                                              283
                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                          2
                       Bank Drive-Up Exit




                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                 2



                                                                                      North
                                                               0
                                                               0
                                                               0
                                                               0
                                                Peds Right Thru




                                                                           Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM
                                   0
                                   0
                                   0
                                   0
                                In




                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                0




                                                                                                                                                       In
                                                                                                                                                       205


                                                                                                                                                        199




                                                                           Auto
                                                         0
                                                         0
                                                         0
                                                         0




                                                                                                                      Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                                          4




                                                                           Medium
                                                                                                                        60


                                                                                                                        58




                                                                           Heavy
                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                          2
                          0
                          0
                          0
                          0
                      Out




                                                                                                                                                               Total
                                                   0
                                                   0
                                                   0
                                                   0




                                                                                                                                                                 490


                                                                                                                                                                 482
                                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                                                   6
                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                              1




                                                                            Left       Thru Right Peds
                                                                                   0    299    55    0
                                                                                   0       0    0    0
                                                                                   0       1    0    0
                                                                                   0    300    55    0


                                                                              463        354       817
                                                                                 2         0         2
                                                                                 1         1         2
                                                                              466        355       821
                                                                             Out        In       Total
                                                                                 US 7 from Milton
Run Date: 2012/09/14                                                                    Vermont Agency of Transportation
                                                                                           Technical Services Division
                                                                                              Traffic Research Unit
                                                                                             Special Count - Volume
                                                                                                        2011
Site ID: S6F105                                                                                        Town: Georgia                                                                        Final AADT: 9100
Functional Class: RURAL:MAJOR COLLECTOR                                                                Count Type: VOLUME                                                                   Route No: US7
Location: Georgia: US7 S of I89 Exit18                                                                 Counter Type: Tube                                                                           Daily                 Adj.
Date          0    1   2     3    4    5 6 7                                8           9   10      11 12 13 14 15 16                       17    18      19     20    21      22     23 Total Factor        MADT ACF     Vol.
2011/06/22 Wed   64   22      31      34   89      279      736 1050      621     525       520     537    602    582    628   928 1047 1105      687     446    345   224     173   103    11378     0.95    0.90 0.97   9485
2011/06/23 Thu   43   34      50      43   85      299      693 1017      700     524       501     557    693    571    622   892 954 968        786     476    359   254     143    93    11357     0.93    0.90 0.97   9253
2011/06/24 Fri   65   23      30      30   84      238      666 954       652     578       611     633    706    665    693   978 932 1083       734     496    393   308     241   137    11930     0.89    0.90 0.97   9263
2011/06/25 Sat   70   51      49      35   47      121      221   306     433     474       590     674    700    678    630   615    580   576   467     363    297   279     205   151     8612     1.18    0.90 0.97   8892
2011/06/26 Sun   80   45      41      34   31       90      138   222     278     384       461     496    609    535    550   508    493   447   417     373    301   224     134    66     6957     1.40    0.90 0.97   8553
2011/06/27 Mon   29   22      22      35   75      271      622   883     609     500       479     517    565    476    512   765    824   843   579     396    343   253     126    72     9818     0.97    0.90 0.97   8307
2011/06/28 Tue   57   25      31      39   79      257      644   907     582     494       476     457    539    484    488   731    833   894   607     419    331   222     130    89     9815     0.95    0.90 0.97   8141
   Average:      58   32      36      36   70      222     531    763     554     497       520     553    631    570    589   774    809   845   611     424    338   252     165   102

                      Sun *        Mon *   Tue *         Wed *    Thu *         Fri *       Sat *    Weekday      Weekend      All Days**   Average Peak Volume:             Preliminary AADT: 8800

  Hours Averaged:       24           24      24             24       24        24             24            120           48          168   AM Peak***:    962               Poll Site: P6F029
  Average Volume:     6957         9818    9815          11378    11357     11930           8612          10860         7785         9981   PM Peak***:    979               Poll Group:   Urban

* Averaging by hour(0-23), then by day of week (Sun-Sat)
** Adjusted Average Day equals 5/7 * Avg Weekday + 2/ 7 * Avg Weekend Day
*** AM PM Peak Average Volumes are only from the weekday days
Run Date: 2012/09/14                                                                    Vermont Agency of Transportation
                                                                                           Technical Services Division
                                                                                              Traffic Research Unit
                                                                                             Special Count - Volume
                                                                                                        2011
Site ID: S6F378                                                                                        Town: Georgia                                                                        Final AADT: 7400
Functional Class: RURAL:MAJOR COLLECTOR                                                                Count Type: CLASS                                                                    Route No: US7
Location: Georgia: US7 betw Ballard Rd/VT104A                                                          Counter Type: Tube                                                                           Daily               Adj.
Date          0    1   2    3     4    5   6  7                             8           9   10      11 12 13 14 15 16                      17    18      19     20    21      22     23 Total Factor         MADT ACF   Vol.
2011/06/21 Tue                                                                                            478    470    458   610    741   852   576     410    332   222     118     60     5327     0.94    0.90      4516
2011/06/22 Wed   42   10      19      16   48      164      402   657     457     369       386     441   524    461    487   633    767   818   559     350    292   169     118     60     8249     0.95    0.90      7071
2011/06/23 Thu   33   24      25      21   38      182      391   620     471     348       373     460   584    434    439   625    721   806   608     407    285   200     104     54     8253     0.93    0.90      6914
2011/06/24 Fri   38   20      16      22   38      130      377   599     437     384       455     503   566    510    522   663    739   835   574     408    301   235     176   109      8657     0.89    0.90      6912
2011/06/25 Sat   50   32      33      21   22       64      130   202     359     371       479     576   624    611    562   567    562   549   439     371    251   235     167   125      7402     1.18    0.90      7858
2011/06/26 Sun   56   32      28      17   20       56       94   155     226     331       433     449   555    501    549   491    463   432   445     356    303   173      99    54      6318     1.40    0.90      7987
2011/06/27 Mon   23   14      10      16   33      159      411   614     436     395       413     481   509    434    433   661    793   824   595     404    326   224     101    62      8371     0.97    0.90      7283
2011/06/28 Tue   42   14      14      17   40      172      413   627     439     382       380     412   492    427    408   612    788   874   614     397    280   186     103    65      8198     0.95    0.90      6992
2011/06/29 Wed   27   12      20      17   49      174      406   596     478     369       417     472                                                                                      3037     0.94    0.90      2563
   Average:      39   20      21      18   36      138     328    509     413     369       417     474   542    481    482   608    697   749   551     388    296   206     123     74

                      Sun *        Mon *   Tue *         Wed *    Thu *         Fri *       Sat *    Weekday     Weekend      All Days**   Average Peak Volume:             Preliminary AADT: 7300

  Hours Averaged:       24           24      36             36      24            24          24           144           48          192   AM Peak***:    623               Poll Site: P6F029
  Average Volume:     6318         8371    8236           8258    8253          8657        7402          8349         6860         7923   PM Peak***:    831               Poll Group:    Urban

* Averaging by hour(0-23), then by day of week (Sun-Sat)
** Adjusted Average Day equals 5/7 * Avg Weekday + 2/ 7 * Avg Weekend Day
*** AM PM Peak Average Volumes are only from the weekday days
Page: 1                                                                                    Vermont Agency of Transportation                                                                                                Date: 09/13/2012
                              General Yearly Summaries - Crash Listing: State Highways and All Federal Aid Highway Systems
                                                                   From 01/01/07 To 12/31/11 General Yearly Summaries Information


                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Number
     Reporting                                                                                                                                                                                  Number      Number            Of
     Agency/                                  Mile    Date                                                                                                                                            Of           Of   Untimely               Road
 *   Number            Town                 Marker    MM/DD/YY       Time    Weather              Contributing Circumstances                      Direction Of Collision                        Injuries   Fatalities     Deaths   Direction   Group


Route: US-7
      0613/5133-07     Georgia                 1.01   03/31/2007     16:40   Clear                No improper driving, Failed to yield right of   Head On                                             0            0          0    N           SH
                                                                                                  way
     VTVSP0700/10A20   Georgia                 1.05   11/13/2010     17:36   Clear                No improper driving                                                                                 0            0          0    S           SH
     5080
     0613/2208-07      Georgia                  1.1   02/10/2007     13:23   Clear                No improper driving, Unknown                    Same Direction Sideswipe                            0            0          0                SH
     VTVSP0700/09A20   Georgia                  1.1   10/23/2009     16:55   Cloudy               Failed to yield right of way, No improper       No Turns, Thru moves only, Broadside ^<             2            0          0                SH
     4923                                                                                         driving
     VTVSP0700/10A20   Georgia                  1.1   08/20/2010     16:43   Other - Explain in   Failed to yield right of way, Unknown           Left Turn and Thru, Angle Broadside -->v--          0            0          0    E           SH
     3634                                                                    Narrative
     VT0060000/11FRC   Georgia                  1.1   02/10/2011     10:01   Clear                Failed to yield right of way, Inattention, No   Left Turn and Thru, Angle Broadside -->v--          1            0          0    E           SH
     0479                                                                                         improper driving
     VTVSP0700/11A20   Georgia                  1.1   05/23/2011     15:25   Clear                No improper driving, Inattention                Left Turn and Thru, Head On ^v--                    0            0          0                SH
     2211
     0613/4408-07      Georgia                 1.12   03/23/2007     14:38   Clear                Followed too closely, No improper driving       Same Direction Sideswipe                            0            0          0    S           SH
     0613/3463-07      Georgia                 1.17   02/17/2007     16:06   Clear                Failed to yield right of way, No improper       Left Turn and Thru, Angle Broadside -->v--          2            0          0    N           SH
                                                                                                  driving
     0613/16507-07     Georgia                  1.2   12/13/2007     07:31   Cloudy               No improper driving, Failed to yield right of   Left Turn and Thru, Angle Broadside -->v--          0            0          0                SH
                                                                                                  way
     VTVSP0700/08A20   Georgia                  1.2   10/19/2008     08:36   Cloudy               Failed to yield right of way, No improper       No Turns, Thru moves only, Broadside ^<             0            0          0    E           SH
     5584                                                                                         driving
     VTVSP0700/11A20   Georgia                  1.2   06/20/2011     18:13   Clear                Failed to yield right of way, Inattention, No   Same Direction Sideswipe                            0            0          0    N           SH
     2723                                                                                         improper driving

                                                                                                                                                                                      Totals:         5            0          0


___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Total Crash Count = 12           Fatal Crash Count = 0             Injury Crash Count = 3           PDO Crash Count = 9


Note: US-7Georgia MM 0.98-1.22 only.
VT-104A intersects US-7 at mile point 1.10.
Untimely Deaths are the result of death prior to a crash event. These deaths are not counted in the Fatal/Fatality type counts.
They are considered an Incapacitating Injury and are counted in Injury Type crashes.
L. Roberts - Vtrans
THIS DOCUMENT IS EXEMPT FROM DISCOVERY OR ADMISSION UNDER 23 U.S.C 409.




*Crash occurred prior to the last Highway Improvement Project. This data should not be used in a crash analysis. UNK indicates the Mile Marker is Unknown.
Page: 1                                                                                Vermont Agency of Transportation                                                                                  Date: 09/13/2012
                               General Yearly Summaries - Crash Listing: State Highways and All Federal Aid Highway Systems
                                                                    From 01/01/07 To 12/31/11 General Yearly Summaries Information


                                                                                                                                                                                                       Number
     Reporting                                                                                                                                                                Number      Number            Of
     Agency/                                    Mile   Date                                                                                                                         Of           Of   Untimely               Road
 *   Number             Town                  Marker   MM/DD/YY      Time    Weather        Contributing Circumstances                   Direction Of Collision               Injuries   Fatalities     Deaths   Direction   Group


Route: VT-104A
      0613/12674-07     Georgia                    0   09/27/2007    10:41   Cloudy         Failed to yield right of way, No improper    Same Direction Sideswipe                   0            0          0                SH
                                                                                            driving
     VTVSP0700/08A20    Georgia                    0   12/03/2008    06:40   Clear          Made an improper turn, Unknown               Same Direction Sideswipe                   0            0          0    N           SH
     6282
     VTVSP0700/09A20    Georgia                    0   02/13/2009    15:58   Clear          Other improper action                        Same Direction Sideswipe                   0            0          0    W           SH
     0654
     VTVSP0700/09A20    Georgia                    0   12/04/2009    07:36   Clear                                                       Same Direction Sideswipe                   0            0          0                SH
     5532
     VT0060000/10FRC    Georgia                    0   08/27/2010    13:31   Cloudy         Inattention, No improper driving             Rear End                                   0            0          0    W           SH
     3413
     VTVSP0700/10A20    Georgia                    0   12/13/2010    07:38   Rain           Followed too closely, No improper driving    Rear End                                   1            0          0    E           SH
     5572
     VT0060000/11FRC    Georgia                    0   03/25/2011    09:15   Cloudy         Other improper action, No improper driving   Same Direction Sideswipe                   1            0          0    W           SH
     0997
                                                                                                                                                                    Totals:         2            0          0


__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Total Crash Count = 7             Fatal Crash Count = 0         Injury Crash Count = 2      PDO Crash Count = 5


Note: VT-104A Georgia MM 0.00-0.12 only.
US-7 intersects VT-104A at mile point 0.00.
Untimely Deaths are the result of death prior to a crash event. These deaths are not counted in the Fatal/Fatality type counts.
They are considered an Incapacitating Injury and are counted in Injury Type crashes.
L. Roberts - Vtrans
THIS DOCUMENT IS EXEMPT FROM DISCOVERY OR ADMISSION UNDER 23 U.S.C 409.




*Crash occurred prior to the last Highway Improvement Project. This data should not be used in a crash analysis. UNK indicates the Mile Marker is Unknown.
US 7 /VT 104A Int ersect ion & Bridge No. B-1 ov er Arrow head Mount ain Lake




                                                                                Appendix




B-              VTrans Road Safety Audit Review




                        C-1     Append ix
                           Traffic Safety Section
                               Road Safety Audit Review


Town:     Georgia                                     Date Reviewed:      June 6 2013
Route:    VT 104a                                     Mile points:        0.00 to 2.00


Location Map:




Definitions

A Road Safety Audit Review (RSAR) is a formal examination of an existing road in which an
independent, multi-discipline team (the Audit Team) reports on potential safety issues.
"Independent" means that the members of the team will not be directly involved with the location
being audited.

In addition to the Audit Team, a RSAR involves the following key players: Local Coordinator,
Local Input Team and Responsible Entities.

The Local Coordinator is either a representative of the Town/City or the local regional planning
commission. His/her role is to put a Local Input Team together, aggregate traffic and safety
information, lead the commencement meeting and follow-up with local responsible entities. The
role of the Local Input Team is to provide a local perspective at the commencement meeting. It

  Note: THIS DOCUMENT IS EXEMPT FROM DISCOVERY OR ADMISSION UNDER 23 U.S.C. 409
                                            1 of 41
                           Traffic Safety Section
                               Road Safety Audit Review


is composed of representatives from the community such as Selectboard Members, Police,
EMT, VAOT District, and Other Local People. The Audit Team is responsible for performing a
site visit, identifying safety issues and coming to a consensus with respect to possible guidance.
Responsible Entities are any groups who own a roadway feature or who are responsible for
making an improvement or initiating further studies. These could include for example, the
VTRANS Design Section, the Local Town, the Police or the Local RPC/MPO. The role of the
Responsible Entities is to assess the viability of the suggestions provided by the Audit Team
and provide a written response to the Audit Coordinator, to schedule and/or perform the
improvements if deemed necessary and to follow-up with the audit or local coordinator when the
project is completed. Finally, the Audit Coordinator is the person responsible for setting up the
audit and other meeting dates, to put the audit team together, to facilitate the post inspection
meeting and the completion meeting, and to prepare the audit report.


RSAR Process

The RSAR process is composed of several steps as shown in the diagram below. The process
starts with a Commencement Meeting between the Local Input Team and the Audit Team. The
purpose of the meeting is for the Local Input Team to present community concerns to the Audit
Team. A Site Inspection is then performed by the Audit Team. Members from the Local Input
Team can accompany the Audit Team to further explain concerns. The site visit involves the
identification of safety deficiencies as seen in the field. The Audit Team will usually drive
through the location of interest to




  Note: THIS DOCUMENT IS EXEMPT FROM DISCOVERY OR ADMISSION UNDER 23 U.S.C. 409
                                             2 of 41
                                   Traffic Safety Section
                                           Road Safety Audit Review



                              Figure 1. ROAD SAFETY AUDIT PROCESS



           Commencement                             Local     info
                                                                        Indep
                                                    Input                Audit
              Meeting                               Team      ???
                                                                        Team



                   Site                              Indep
                                                      Audit
                                                                     Local
                                                                     Input

                Inspection                           Team
                                                                     Team




            Post Inspection                          Indep
                                                      Audit
               Meeting                               Team



               Completion                           Indep     info       Local Input Team
                                                     Audit                       &
                Meeting                             Team
                                                              ???
                                                                           Responsible
                                                                             Entities


              Audit Report                           Audit
                                                   Coordinator
               (w ith Suggested Im provem ents)




                  Written                         Responsible                    Audit & Local
                 Response                           Entities                     Coordinators
               (accept or dism iss suggestions)




                 Follow Up                         Audit Coordinator               Responsible
                  Report                           Local Coordinator
                                                                                     Entities
                   (w hat w as done by w ho)




"get a feel" for the area, traveling through each approach in the case of intersections. The team
is to then drive at a slower posted speed to make observations. If needed, the team will also
walk the location. Following the site inspection, the Audit Team holds a Post Inspection

  Note: THIS DOCUMENT IS EXEMPT FROM DISCOVERY OR ADMISSION UNDER 23 U.S.C. 409
                                                    3 of 41
                           Traffic Safety Section
                                Road Safety Audit Review


Meeting. It is during this meeting that the team members discuss their observations and identify
safety issues. The team is to reach a consensus on the importance of each safety issue
mentioned. Only those issues for which a consensus is reached are included in the RSAR
findings. The final RSAR report (Written Report) is finalized following the Completion Meeting
during which the issues identified by the audit team are discussed with the Local Input Team
and Responsible Entities. The meeting is to be constructive and foster dialogue between the
parties involved. The Written Report identifies safety concerns and proposes guidance. These
issues and solutions are presented in a tabular format associated to each Responsible Entity for
ease of reporting. The Responsible Entities are to provide a Written Response on every finding
of the Written Report as to its implementation. The Responsible Entity is not obliged to
implement the findings in the Written Report. However, the reasons for not implementing a
finding should be documented (e.g. physical constraints, excessive cost, environmental
constraints, etc.).

The RSAR herein covers physical features which may affect road user safety and it has sought
to identify potential safety hazards. However, the audit team points out that no guarantee is
made that every deficiency has been identified. Further, it should also be understood that the
adoption of the guidance in this report should improve the level of safety of the facility but not
necessarily remove all the risks.


Location

The location of this RSAR is the section of VT 104a between US 7 and a point 1000 feet east of
the Arrow Head Lake Rd intersection. Specifically, the areas of concern are the intersection with
US 7, Bridge 1 and the series of curves east of Bridge 1. The mile markers mentioned in this
report start from the US 7 intersection at 0.0 and increase eastward.


Purpose of the RSAR

This RSAR was conducted at the request of the Northwest Regional Planning Commission and
the Town of Georgia. This request came out of a recent public meeting for the VT 104A/US 7
Intersection and Bridge 1 feasibility study. While the permanent solution at Bridge 1 is to
replace the narrow bridge, the community recognizes that this is many years away and that in
the meantime, a RSAR could identify some short-term improvements.


RSAR Team

The independent, multi-disciplined Road Safety Audit Review Team included the following
individuals:

Greg Bakos,                   VHB
Aaron Guyette,                VHB
Marcos Miller,                Traffic Ops, VAOT

  Note: THIS DOCUMENT IS EXEMPT FROM DISCOVERY OR ADMISSION UNDER 23 U.S.C. 409
                                              4 of 41
                             Traffic Safety Section
                                 Road Safety Audit Review


Randy Snelling,               District 5, VAOT


RSAR Team Coordinator

The road safety audit review coordinator was:

Mario Dupigny-Giroux,         Traffic Ops, VAOT


Local Coordinator

The local coordinator was:

Bethany Remmers,              Northwest Regional Planning Commission (NRPC)


Local Input Team

The following individuals from the local community were present at the Commencement
Meeting:

Wesley Combs,                 Road Foreman, Georgia
Ric Nye,                      Highway Road Com, Georgia
Diane Perley,                 District 8, VAOT
Jay Sweeny,                   Franklin County Sheriffs
Deb Woodward,                 Town Administrator, Georgia


Information Reviewed

Horizontal and Vertical Curves

There are several horizontal curves along the segment under study. Table 1 below summarizes
the locations of these curves along with the current warning signs that are associated with these
curves.

In addition to the horizontal curves listed in Table 1, there are two vertical curves along this
section of road. One is a negative three percent grade that goes from mile point 0.70 to 0.90
while the other one is a seven percent grade vertical curve between mile points 1.55 and 1.60
that is further combined with an horizontal curve.




  Note: THIS DOCUMENT IS EXEMPT FROM DISCOVERY OR ADMISSION UNDER 23 U.S.C. 409
                                             5 of 41
                             Traffic Safety Section
                                   Road Safety Audit Review



Table 1, Horizontal Curve Locations

                  Mile                Radius                                                 Crashes
Curve Location            Degree                            Existing Signage
                  Point                 ft                                                   5 years
  Start Curve     0.590     4.91       725                                                      0
     Right

   End Curve      0.734
    Right

  Start Curve     0.884     4.87       732     EB Curve Left W1-2L @ 0.784 missing?             0
     Left

   End Curve      1.118
    Left

  Start Curve     1.458     9.27       384     EB Mod Right Reverse W1-4MR + W13-1 40           3
     Right                                     mph @ 1.42 A

   End Curve      1.540                        W1-6 Large Arrow @ 1.507, 1.501 WB E/F
    Right

  Start Curve     1.570     6.82       587     W1-6 Large Arrow EB @ 1.6 A, 1.64 B, 1.67 B      6
     Left

   End Curve      1.798                        Right Reverse Curve W1-4R + W13-1 40 mph
    Left                                       @ 1.725 WB F

  Start Curve     1.816     5.71       623     Left Reverse Curve W1-4L + W13-1 40 mph @        1
     Right                                     1.94 WB F

   End Curve      1.890
    Right

  Start Curve     1.946     3.1        1148                                                     2
     Right

   End Curve      2.010
    Right




        Note: THIS DOCUMENT IS EXEMPT FROM DISCOVERY OR ADMISSION UNDER 23 U.S.C. 409
                                                6 of 41
                            Traffic Safety Section
                                Road Safety Audit Review



Bridge Information

Bridge 1 is located approximately 1.1 miles east of US 7. It was built in 1937. Its roadway width
curb-to-curb is 20.9 feet while its length is 74 feet.


Speed and Traffic Volume

The posted speed limit is 40 mph from US 7 to just east of Yankee Park Rd and it is 50 mph
from that point eastward.

Advisory speeds that suggest the preferred speed to travel at along certain curves are posted at
mile point 1.42 for eastbound traffic, at mile point 1.72 for westbound traffic and at mile point
1.94 also for westbound traffic.

The 2011 Average Annual Daily Traffic was 4300 vehicles per day between US 7 and Arrow
Head Lake Rd and it was 3700 vehicles per day east of Arrow Head Lake Rd up to the Fairfax
townline.

A 2010 automatic vehicle classification count on VT 104a at mile point 3.15 revealed that traffic
on VT 104a is composed of approximately 95% passenger vehicles, 4% single vehicle trucks
and 2% tractor trailer trucks.

Based on a 2012 turning movement count, the percentage of trucks approaching the US 7
intersection from VT 104a is 7.6%. Of the trucks approaching the intersection from the east,
1.9% are tractor trailer trucks and 5.65% are single unit trucks (approximately 43 and 128
vehicles of each type respectively over the 12-hour period of 6:00 am to 6:00 pm). Of these
trucks, 77.3% are turning right and 22.7% are making a left turn. This distribution is very similar
to the one of passenger vehicles. Overall on the VT 104a approach, the raw 2012 count
indicated that 1804 vehicles were turning right compared to 387 vehicles that were turning left
and 71 that were continuing across US 7 to the bank entrance.


Pavement Condition

The 2012 pavement condition rating for this portion of VT 104a was qualified as "very poor".
Between US 7 and mile marker 1.0, the average rut depth of both wheel paths was 0.268 inch
and the composite index was 18.87, while for the section between mile markers 1.0 and 2.0, the
composite index was 28.79 and the average rut depth was 0.25 inch.

The very poor determination of the overall condition of the road surface was determined from
the composite index (in our case, 28.79 and 18.87) using the following scale with 0 being the
worst possible condition and 100 being the best. Specifically, this scale is: 0-40 Very Poor, 40-
65 Poor, 65-80 Fair, 80-100 Good.



  Note: THIS DOCUMENT IS EXEMPT FROM DISCOVERY OR ADMISSION UNDER 23 U.S.C. 409
                                              7 of 41
                           Traffic Safety Section
                                Road Safety Audit Review



Traffic Committee Action

The Town of Georgia requested in March 2009 that the Traffic Committee evaluate and reduce
the posted speed limit to 40 mph from the Arrowhead Industrial Park driveway to a point
easterly on Highbridge Rd. The Traffic Committee considered this request at its September
2009 meeting and elected to retain the existing speed limit.

The decision of the Traffic Committee was based on the findings of a July 2009 engineering
study that determined that the 85th percentile speed at three locations ranged between 50 and
52 mph, which indicated at the time, based on guidance from the Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices, that the existing speed limit was adequate for this section of road.

Specifically, the study determined that at around mm 0.88, the 85th percentile speed was 52
mph and the 10-mile pace (the 10-mile range of speeds within which most vehicles travel) was
44 to 53 mph. Near mile marker 1.45, the 85th percentile speed was 50 mph and the 10-mile
pace was 42 to 51 mph while at the third location near mile point 1.73, the percentile speed was
51 mph and the 10-mile pace was also 42 to 51 mph.

USLimits, an expert system software available from FHWA's website, was used to further
assess the speed limit in this area. The software considers traffic, but not specifically truck
traffic. Input to the analysis included, the 2009 speed study, the 2008-2012 crash data, the area
type and the number of driveways. Based on this, USLimits suggests that the appropriate speed
limit be 50 mph and that areas with adverse alignments may require lower advisory speeds.


Past Projects

This section of VT 104a was last paved in the late 90's. According to VTrans Pavement
Management, it will be at least five more years before this road is paved again (discussion with
Mike Fowler on May 29, 2013).

A work order (01-081) was completed on April 18, 2001. This work order included VT 104a from
US 7 to about mile marker 2.0 (just east of 2664 Highbridge Rd) and was mostly for the
replacement of signs. The work order adjusted the placement of the large arrows between mile
markers 1.5 and 1.7. The work order retained the two modified turn signs and their associated
40 mph advisory plaques near mile points 1.4 and 1.7, replaced the reverse curve sign near
mile point 2.0 and installed a new curve sign for eastbound traffic near mile point 0.784 for the
curve near Harrison Sand Inc.

A second work order (09-494) was completed on January 28, 2010. This work order was for
new sign applications. The work order installed object markers near the abutment of Bridge 1 on
all four corners. It also installed narrow bridge warning signs in advanced of the bridge. Figure 2
shows the bridge in 2008 without the object markers and the bridge in 2012 with the object
markers. This work order also installed Watch For Turning Vehicles warning signs with a Next ½
Mile plaque at mile points 0.878 and 1.538 in the vicinity of the fishing access.


  Note: THIS DOCUMENT IS EXEMPT FROM DISCOVERY OR ADMISSION UNDER 23 U.S.C. 409
                                             8 of 41
                       Traffic Safety Section
                           Road Safety Audit Review




Figure 2, Before and After Pictures of Bridge 1 without and with Object Markers




 Note: THIS DOCUMENT IS EXEMPT FROM DISCOVERY OR ADMISSION UNDER 23 U.S.C. 409
                                       9 of 41
                               Traffic Safety Section
                                   Road Safety Audit Review


   Crash History

   Crash history was reviewed for the area between US 7 and Bridge 1 and for the area around the
   Arrow Head Lake Rd intersection.

   There were ten crashes on VT 104a between US 7 and Bridge 1 from 2008 to May 2013. Of
   these ten crashes, five took place on the VT 104a approach of the US 7 intersection.
   Specifically, four of the five crashes displayed a similar pattern: Same direction sideswipe
   involving a tractor trailer that had to swing wide to make the right turn while a vehicle was
   passing on the right (There is only one lane on the approach, but it is wide enough for two
   vehicles to stand side-by-side). The distribution of these same direction sideswipe crashes is
   shown in Figure 3. The other crash at the US 7 intersection was a rear-end crash.


Figure 3, Severity Distribution of Same Direction Sideswipe Crashes at the US 7 intersection




   During the same period, there was one crash that took place on the bridge, a recent occurrence
   that happened earlier in 2013 between a school bus and a truck. There were no injuries in the
   crash as the two vehicles brushed off each other which resulted in one of the mirrors of the bus
   to shatter.

   The other three crashes within this section took place at various points and did not show any
   specific patterns.

   There were twelve crashes between 2008 and May 2013 on VT 104a in the area extending half
   a mile on each side of the Arrow Head Lake Rd intersection. The graph in Figure 4 below shows
   the distribution of these crashes over the period. It is to be noted that the three crashes in 2012
   took place on the same day within a short period of time.

   Of the twelve crashes, nine involved a vehicle that ran-off-the-road or hit a fixed object (75%).
   For 55% of these nine crashes, the road surface was either snow covered or icy (but the
   weather was either sunny or cloudy). Seventy percent of these vehicles were also traveling
   westbound.

      Note: THIS DOCUMENT IS EXEMPT FROM DISCOVERY OR ADMISSION UNDER 23 U.S.C. 409
                                                10 of 41
                           Traffic Safety Section
                               Road Safety Audit Review




Figure 4, Severity Distribution of Crashes ½ mile each side of Arrow Lake Rd




There are two sub-areas were crashes are happening within the area of the Arrow Head Lake
Rd intersection. The first is between the fishing access and Jed Shepard Rd. The common
crash type in this area is a vehicle that lost control.

The other hot spot location is between Arrow Head Lake Road and a point about 0.25 miles
east of the Arrow Head Lake intersection. There was only one specific intersection type crash at
the intersection of Arrow Head Lake Rd (a vehicle that was waiting to make a left turn and that
got rear-ended). Loss of control crashes were determined to be happening east of the
intersection within the first 100 feet and also somewhere 0.2 to 0.25 miles east of the
intersection.

Traffic Studies

The Northwest Regional Planning Commission initiated a feasibility study for long term
improvements at the US Route 7 and VT 104A Intersection as well as for Bridge 1. Major
geometric improvements at the intersection include a traffic signal or a roundabout. For the
bridge, it is being proposed to widen it to 30 feet.

There are a number of studies that are being done as part of Act 250. These include new
developments on US 7 in the area of the VT 104a intersection (Dollar General near Georgia
Market) and a proposed query between Skunk Hollow Road and VT 104a.


Local Concerns

The following issues were brought forward by the local team during the commencement
meeting.



   Note: THIS DOCUMENT IS EXEMPT FROM DISCOVERY OR ADMISSION UNDER 23 U.S.C. 409
                                            11 of 41
                             Traffic Safety Section
                                 Road Safety Audit Review


       Two years ago, the RPC initiated a feasibility study for the US 7/VT 104a intersection.
       Bridge 1 was added to the study since it had been a concern for the Town.
       Bridge 1 is narrow and for the traffic condition, it should be 30 ft wide.
       The guardrail system is failing on the bridge.
       The centerline marking is currently not visible.
       As a result of the recent bus incident on the bridge, the school suggested to bus drivers
       that they stop before entering the bridge when there is opposing traffic.
       There has been an increase in truck traffic on VT 104a due principally to Husky.
       There is increasing development in Fairfax and thus an increase in commuter traffic.


Potential Safety Concerns

This section lists the areas of safety concern identified by the audit team during the field visit
and from their analysis of available data along with potential remedial actions. The concerns are
not listed in order of importance. These safety concerns are also summarized on the
observations table presented at the end of this section. The observations table lists the group
most likely to be responsible for making the improvements.

Problem #1

Narrow bridge and lack of visual clues (especially when the centerline is completely faded)


Immediate to Short Term Actions (within 6 months)

Install recessed yellow centerline markings on the bridge and its approaches

Install additional object 3 markers on the back of the existing object markers

Install a vertical retroreflective strip on the post of each object 3 marker

Relocate the Narrow Bridge signs

Replace all reflectors inside the guardrail on the bridge and its approaches


Mid Term Actions (within 12 months)

Prioritize a project for a wider bridge




   Note: THIS DOCUMENT IS EXEMPT FROM DISCOVERY OR ADMISSION UNDER 23 U.S.C. 409
                                               12 of 41
                           Traffic Safety Section
                                Road Safety Audit Review


Problem #2

Travel speeds perceived too high for traffic, land use and geometric conditions


Immediate to Short Term Actions (within 6 months)

Install a 40 mph advisory speed plaque beneath each Narrow Bridge Sign (upsize warning signs
to 36")

Evaluate the need for updated signage (including ball banking) for the curves listed in Table 1

Measure the corner sight distance at the Arrow Head Lake Rd intersection and assess the
situation

Request from VTrans a reevaluation of the posted speed limit given new traffic generators and
increased truck and commuter traffic

Increase enforcement and target drivers traveling above 56 mph

Concept: From the enforcement side, if enforcement is to contribute to the safety of this road, it
should be done according to the following concept suggested by FHWA. As depicted in Figure
4, Research has shown that the crash involvement rate increases as traveling speeds deviate
from the 85th percentile speed. This means that targeting motorists that are traveling above the
85th percentile speed will apprehend motorists that are more likely to cause a crash. Crash
involvement starts to increase more drastically 5 mph above the 85th. Applying this concept to
this section of VT 104a means that the focus should be put on vehicles that are traveling at or
above 56 mph.




  Note: THIS DOCUMENT IS EXEMPT FROM DISCOVERY OR ADMISSION UNDER 23 U.S.C. 409
                                             13 of 41
