                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study




ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Gerstle Park Neighborhood Association (GPNA) Representatives
  Muriel Ballard, President
  Stacey Laumann
  Dan Miller
  Lori Schifrin
  Jim Schmidt
  Steve Schoonover
  Brigette Waterbury



 City of San Rafael
   Ken Nordhoff, City Manager
   Nader Mansourian, City Traffic Engineer
   Linda Zeng, Traffic Engineer
   Suvra Chakrabarti, Associate Engineer (Traffic)
   Leslie Morris, Associate Engineer (Traffic)
   Willie Lagleva, Traffic Technician




Copies of this report and traffic data is available at:
    http://www.cityofsanrafael.org/Government/PublicWorks/San_Rafael_Public_Works_Projects
    .htm.
 Presented to the San Rafael City Council on December 15th, 2008.

City of San Rafael                                                         Acknowledgements
Traffic Engineering Division
                               Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Table of Contents

Executive Summary ............................................................................................................ ii
1. Introduction......................................................................................................................1
2. List of Alternatives ..........................................................................................................5
3. Analysis of Alternatives...................................................................................................7
     3.1     Alternative 1.....................................................................................................................7
     3.2     Alternative 2...................................................................................................................19
     3.3     Alternative 3...................................................................................................................30
     3.4     Alternative 4...................................................................................................................38
     3.5     Alternative 5...................................................................................................................46
     3.6     Alternative 6...................................................................................................................54
     3.7     Alternative 7...................................................................................................................57
     3.8     Alternative 8...................................................................................................................60
     3.9     Alternative A..................................................................................................................62
     3.10    Alternative B ..................................................................................................................76
     3.11    Alternative C ..................................................................................................................87
     3.12    Alternative D..................................................................................................................99
     3.13    Alternative E ................................................................................................................110
     3.14    Alternative 9.................................................................................................................113
     3.15    Alternative 10...............................................................................................................123
     3.16    Alternative 10 (with Modifications).............................................................................134
4. Comparison of Alternatives .........................................................................................137
5. Preferred Neighborhood Option ..................................................................................147
6. List of Traffic-Related Issues Identified by the GPNA ...............................................151
Appendix A: List of Locations for Data Collection........................................................ A-1
Appendix B: Sample of Data: First St/C Street Turning Movement Count ....................B-1
Appendix C: Sample of Data: First St/D Street Turning Movement Count ....................C-1
Appendix D: Sample of Data: Second St/D Street Turning Movement Count .............. D-1
Appendix E: Sample of Data: D Street Average Daily Traffic Count.............................E-1




List of Figures
     1. Preferred Neighborhood Option ............................................................................149
     2. Preferred Neighborhood Option ............................................................................150




City of San Rafael                                                                                                     Table of Contents
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                                                      Page i
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Executive Summary
Introduction to Traffic Operations Study and Analysis of Alternatives
         The City of San Rafael and the Gerstle Park Neighborhood Association (GPNA)
representatives initiated the `Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study' in 2006 to
identify and address some of the neighborhood's most critical traffic related issues. The GPNA
presented a list of twenty-one (21) traffic related items of concern to the City for review and
consideration. Both the City staff and the GPNA developed specific goals, to emphasize efforts
to improve the traffic operations and safety of the D Street corridor and to make the First Street/C
Street and First Street/D Street intersections as a priority. Consequently, City staff conducted a
major Traffic data collection exercise including manual turning movement counts, 24-hour
machine counts, speed surveys, intersection sight distance studies, gap and delay studies and
observation of traffic operations at selected intersections and roadways within the Gerstle Park
neighborhood and downtown to its north. The data was useful for City staff to prepare City's first
neighborhood Traffic model to analyze various Traffic alternatives and their impacts throughout
the neighborhood and adjacent arterials and intersections (downtown to its north).

         A series of meetings were held with GPNA representatives and City officials, which
included Ken Nordhoff, City Manager, Nader Mansourian, City Traffic Engineer, Muriel Ballard,
President of GPNA, GPNA's Traffic Committee and other representatives. The City and GPNA
jointly developed various Traffic scenarios or, alternatives. These alternatives included
converting D Street to two-way between First and Second Streets or, between First and Third
Streets; signalizing or, installing all-way stop control at First Street/C Street and First Street/D
Street intersections with many combinations. City staff and GPNA representatives together
developed as many as sixteen (16) alternatives for the neighborhood traffic circulation.
Additional scenarios were developed by modifying the alternatives and were discussed during the
meetings as well. These resulted in about eighty (80) scenarios for AM and PM peak hours and
for baseline/existing and General Plan 2020 (future) conditions. Staff analyzed the intersection
and arterial operations to determine the impacts of each scenario and then compared the values
with the City's General Plan 2020 policy standards. Staff discussed and presented the results of
the analysis of each scenario during the meetings with the GPNA representatives. Eight (8)
scenarios were discussed in the meeting held on May 10, 2007. It was decided to dismiss a few
alternatives due to their far-reaching adverse impacts (especially the alternatives for converting D
Street to two-way up to Third Street were not pursued due to their impacts on the traffic in the
neighborhood and downtown; the impacts include queuing, congestion and delay and
occasionally operational failures of intersections and arterials) and develop more alternatives with
D Street two-way up to Second Street. Previous alternatives were reviewed and six (6) new
alternatives were discussed during the next meeting held on July 12, 2007. The selection was
narrowed down to even fewer alternatives with variations such as northbound left-turn restrictions
at First Street/D Street and D Street/Frances Street intersections.

    A series of meetings followed, in which various alternatives were discussed that seemed most
feasible. In August 2008, it was decided that the study already looked at all possible alternatives
that can be implemented with minimal impacts into the neighborhood and adjacent arterials and
the following four (4) options for the neighborhood were to be introduced to the residents as a
result of this long and comprehensive Traffic Operations study.

1.   Neighborhood Option #1: Low Level Intervention ­ Same (existing) street pattern plus
     restrict northbound left-turn movement at D Street/First Street and D Street/Frances Street




City of San Rafael                                                               Executive Summary
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                 Page ii
                        Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


     during AM and PM peak periods (7:00-9:00 AM and 4:00-6:00 PM) and install a raised
     median on eastbound First Street at C Street

2.   Neighborhood Option #2: Medium Level Intervention ­ Convert D Street to two-way
     between First and Second Streets plus install all-way stop control at First Street/C Street and
     restrict northbound left-turn movement at D Street/First Street and D Street/Frances Street
     during AM and PM Peak Periods (7:00-9:00 AM and 4:00-6:00 PM)

3.   Neighborhood Option #3: High Level Intervention ­ Same (existing) street pattern plus
     install traffic signals at First Street/C Street and First Street/D Street intersections and install
     a raised median on eastbound First Street at C Street as identified in the General Plan 2020
     infrastructure improvements.

4.   Existing Traffic Circulation Pattern: No change ­ The existing traffic circulation pattern
     and control would be maintained.

Outreach and Preferred Neighborhood Option
    The GPNA was instrumental in the outreach process for the public meeting. City and GPNA
sent jointly-signed letters (signed by the City Manager and GPNA President) to the residents of
the neighborhood inviting them to the public meeting. Additionally, information on the meeting
was provided in the GPNA's official website, distributing posters and flyers in the neighborhood,
etc. The first general neighborhood meeting was held on September 17, 2008 at the Community
Center on B Street. Councilmember Cyr Miller was present during the meeting. Ken Nordhoff,
Nader Mansourian and Traffic Division staff represented the City. Muriel and GPNA's Traffic
Committee and other representatives were also present. Over fifty (50) residents of the
neighborhood attended the meeting. Ken Nordhoff and Muriel Ballard presented the background
and purpose of the Traffic study and then Nader presented a review of the four alternatives. The
purpose of the meeting was to receive information from the residents on their preferred option.
The general consensus leaned toward the second option. However, the residents wanted to know
why the idea to convert D Street to two-way all the way up to Third Street was not considered
and requested the City staff to discuss the effects of such a change in detail. This alternative was,
in fact, was among the first alternatives studied in early 2007 and presented at a meeting with
GPNA on May 10, 2007. The residents also sought for more information on several other
Traffic-related issues such as parking occupancy of the City's parking garage at Third Street/C
Street intersection, Traffic operations of First Street/E Street intersections, etc.

    A follow-up meeting was held on October 22, 2008 at the Community Center on B Street to
discuss these queries. Councilmember Barbara Heller attended this second general neighborhood
meeting. About twenty (20) residents attended the meeting. After a brief introduction of the
Traffic study by Ken and Muriel, Nader presented the implications of converting D Street to two-
way up to Third Street. As discussed earlier, the conversion of D Street to two-way up to Third
Street is more complicated and the idea may be evaluated in the future. The neighborhood once
again supported the second option.

Staff analyzed the impacts of the preferred Option #2. Some advantages of the proposed changes
are presented below.




City of San Rafael                                                                   Executive Summary
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                     Page iii
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


    1.   The all-way stop control at the intersection of First Street and C Street would assign
         right-of-way, reduce confusion, increase safety and would become more pedestrian-
         friendly.
    2.   Conversion of D Street to two-way would provide more convenient and direct access to
         Second Street for northbound D Street drivers especially during non-peak hours.
    3.   During AM and PM peak hours, the volume of eastbound vehicles on First Street at C
         Street intersection would decrease due to the changed circulation pattern.

On the other hand, following are some adverse effects of the proposed changes:

    1.   The intersection of Second Street and D Street would be a new conflict point of
         southbound left-turning and newly introduced northbound right-turning movements,
         where southbound left-turning vehicles would have to yield. Queuing would occur on
         southbound D Street between Second and Third Streets during AM and PM peak hours.
         Occasionally the queue would spill over the block length and cause queuing on the far
         left lane of Third Street causing congestion, queuing and friction on Third Street between
         D Street and upstream intersections.
    2.   Pedestrian crossing at the intersection of First Street and D Street would be more
         challenging as an additional movement (southbound left-turn) would be uncontrolled.
    3.   Diversion would occur east of D Street through C, Bayview and Octavia Streets due to
         the proposed changes.
    4.   Diversion would also occur west of D Street through San Rafael Avenue, Bayview and
         Ross Streets due to the changed circulation pattern and turn restrictions during AM and
         PM peak hours.
    5.   The diverted traffic (see point 4 above) would wait for gaps in oncoming southbound
         traffic on D Street for negotiating the left-turn and impede the northbound through
         movement, causing congestion, delay and queuing in the neighborhood.
    6.   Diverted traffic may cause speeding problems to make up for lost time and traffic
         calming may be necessary to mitigate these effects.
    7.   Nine (9) on-street parking spaces including one (1) yellow loading zone would be
         removed from D Street between First and Second Streets.
    8.   Longer queuing on Second Street, Third Street and Fourth Street is expected under
         baseline and General Plan 2020 conditions during the AM and PM peak hours (more
         frequently toward the end of the peak hours), however this would not be entirely due to
         the proposed changes.

    Staff arranged for two (2) informational and feedback meetings/workshops on December 8,
2008 for the businesses located on D Street between Frances and Third Streets, including the
Kragen Auto Parts store and Arco gas station. There are one hundred and thirty four (134)
businesses in this area. Nader Mansourian, Nancy Mackle, Leslie Morris and Suvra Chakrabarti
represented the City staff. Three attendees were present at the first meeting. There was no
attendee for the second meeting. Staff presented a brief overview of the study and discussed
the implications of the proposed neighborhood Option #2. Attendees voiced their opinions and
concerns for loss of on-street parking and property access difficulties. The property owner at 706
D Street is concerned about his parking lot will be used as a turn-around and access due to the
change in circulation.

Staff Recommendations on Implementation, Test Period and Next Steps
        Staff recommends the `Neighborhood Option #2', the most popular option as we
understood from the meetings with GPNA and general neighborhood, be implemented as an



City of San Rafael                                                               Executive Summary
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                 Page iv
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


interim project. The implementation would include installation of all-way stop control at First
Street/C Street intersection, striping modifications including on-street parking removal, signal
timing modification at Second Street/D Street intersection, possible reversal of the layout at the
Kragen Auto Parts store's parking lot, etc.

         Staff would monitor the traffic operations, make necessary adjustments and collect data.
Staff may also propose additional mitigations during the test period, if necessary. At the end of
the interim period, staff would conduct an initial study using the actual field data to re-calibrate
the computer-based traffic model, analyze traffic operations, determine potential impacts and
identify mitigations. Staff would include all findings and description of any additional
environmental review that may be required to accept the changes as permanent in a future
final report. Staff would review all unresolved pending items from the original requests from the
GPNA comprising of twenty one (21) traffic-related items and propose mitigations in the
upcoming final report. Staff expects to present the final report to the City Council in
approximately nine (9) months from the date of implementation of the project (early 2010). City
Council may decide to accept the changes as permanent changes to the roadway network or,
direct staff to collect more data and conduct further studies.

         Staff prepared reports in segments as and when the alternatives were developed and
analyzed since 2006. The report contains detailed description of the analysis of sixteen (16)
alternatives in chronological order. This report was shared with the representatives of the GPNA
for their information, review and for their website post. The complete report and Traffic counts
(turning movement counts and average daily traffic) are also available on the City's official
website             at            the            following            website             address:
http://www.cityofsanrafael.org/Government/PublicWorks/San_Rafael_Public_Works_Projects.ht
m.




City of San Rafael                                                               Executive Summary
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                 Page v
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Chapter 1: Introduction
        The Gerstle Park neighborhood is a densely-developed neighborhood located next to the
downtown of the City of San Rafael. The neighborhood is bound by Second Street to the north.
To the south, the neighborhood shares its border with the town of Ross. The West End
neighborhood is located to the west and the Picnic Valley neighborhood is located to the east of
Gerstle Park neighborhood.

         The City of San Rafael and the Gerstle Park Neighborhood Association (GPNA)
representatives initiated the `Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study' in 2006 to
identify and address some of the neighborhood's most critical traffic related issues. The GPNA
presented a list of twenty-one (21) traffic related items of concern to the City for review and
consideration. Both the City staff and the GPNA developed specific goals, to emphasize efforts
to improve the traffic operations and safety of the D Street corridor and to make the First Street/C
Street and First Street/D Street intersections as a priority.

        The following section has a list of chronological events regarding the traffic-related
projects executed by the City of San Rafael for Gerstle Park neighborhood.

·   1992 ­ The City conducted all-way stop warrant study at the intersection of First Street and C
    Street. The intersection did not meet the all-way stop control warrants.

·   1992 ­ The City conducted all-way stop warrant study at the intersection of D Street and
    Bayview Street. The intersection did not meet the all-way stop control warrants.

·   1992 ­ The City conducted all-way stop warrant study at the intersection of C Street and
    Bayview Street; and recommended installation of all-way stop control for the intersection.

·   1995 ­ The City examined the idea of converting some of the downtown north-south streets,
    such as B Street, C Street, and D Street, to two-way streets as part of the Downtown Vision
    Plan. W-Trans, a traffic engineering consulting firm, were hired to conduct then study and
    analysis. W-Trans' conclusion was that the intersections such as Second Street and D Street,
    and Third Street and D Street would fail according to the City's operations standard for
    downtown intersections; they did not recommend changing the downtown street network
    back to two-way streets.

·   1995 (October) ­ The City recommended that the neighborhood form a traffic volunteer team
    to assist in analyzing the numerous traffic concerns and requests they had. The volunteers
    were trained to collect data; between the months of October and November of 1995, most of
    the traffic data were collected. The following intersections were studied using the volunteers'
    data and observations-

        ¾ D Street and Bayview Street ­ The intersection was analyzed for all-way stop
          warrants. It did not meet the warrants and calculations indicated long delays would
          occur if all-way stop control were implemented.
        ¾ D Street and Bayview Street ­ The intersection was analyzed for traffic signal
          warrants. The analysis concluded that the warrants were not completely satisfied, but
          using the projected data and engineering judgment we recommended the traffic signal
          installation. The neighborhood advocated for a stop sign only. The City disagreed.




City of San Rafael                                                            Chapter 1: Introduction
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                   Page 1
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


             After many discussions with the neighborhood association, the joint traffic study was
             discussed at the City Council meeting on December 2, 1996; and signal installation
             was approved at intersection of D Street and Bayview Street, based on the
             recommendations of the City Traffic Engineer. This traffic signal has been working
             successfully as predicted by the City's original assessment.
        ¾    D Street and San Rafael Avenue ­ The intersection was analyzed for all-way stop
             warrants. It did not meet the warrants.
        ¾    D Street and Ross Street ­ The intersection was analyzed for all-way stop warrants.
             It did not meet the warrants.
        ¾    D Street and Taylor Street ­ The intersection was analyzed for all-way stop warrants.
             It did not meet the warrants.
        ¾    D Street and Antonette Street ­ The intersection was analyzed for all-way stop
             warrants. It did not meet the warrants.
        ¾    C Street and Taylor Street, C Street and Bayview Street, C Street and Antonette
             Street ­ These intersections were studied for traffic diversion from D Street. The
             City's calculations and the neighborhood volunteers' observations did not indicate a
             major diversion in the area; however, the volunteers noticed some speeding
             violations and other vehicle code violations, such as "California stops". No action
             was recommended.

·   1999 ­ The City reviewed several requests to improve sight distance, and signage for the
    intersection of First Street and C Street. Some of the changes were approved.

·   2000 ­ The Gerstle Park Neighborhood Association (GPNA) and some of the residents
    requested the conversion of D Street to two-way north of First Street, prohibit commercial
    vehicles over 5 ton, and speed humps on Clark Street. The requests were reviewed at Traffic
    Coordinating Committee meeting. The request was denied, except to look into the request for
    restricting commercial vehicles.

·   2002 (Between August and December) ­ The City received several requests from the GPNA
    and residents for the intersection of First Street and C Street. These requests included traffic
    circles, all-way stop, and speed humps, and converting D Street to two-way street. The
    matter was discussed and studies began.

·   2003 (March) ­ The GPNA representatives wanted to revisit some of the old issues, such as
    stop signs and pedestrian controls at all intersections on D Street and C Street, including the
    intersection of First Street and C Street. They also wanted to convert D Street, between First
    Street and Second Street, back to a two-way street and install a stop sign at the intersection of
    First Street and C Street. Issues were discussed with the representatives and they were
    unhappy about the number of vehicles that travel throughout the day on D Street and
    especially at the intersection of First Street and C Street. As directed, the City conducted a
    series of traffic warrant analysis and traffic monitoring to examine the request for conversion
    of D Street to a two-way street. We held a series of informational meetings to exchange ideas
    with the neighborhood representatives; Rod Gould, Dave Bernardi, Andy Preston, Mayor
    Boro and Councilmember Cohen participated in a meeting in June, 2003. The results of the
    City's findings and modeling runs were discussed and it was concluded that the two-way
    street conversion would not be a good idea. It would back up traffic on D Street;
    consequently most of the traffic would end up using First Street and C Street. The all-way
    stop at the intersection of First Street and C Street was not warranted, but a traffic signal may
    be a good solution in the future. A series of pedestrian warning devices were requested,



City of San Rafael                                                            Chapter 1: Introduction
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                   Page 2
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


    which were approved and installed according to the City's standards. These included high
    visibility crosswalk, striping and green-lime pedestrian warning signs and the intersection of
    First Street and C Street and at all D Street intersections.

·   2003 (June) ­ The City conducted a series of truck counts at the intersection of D Street and
    Antonette Street to respond to the complaint about commercial vehicles using this area as a
    short cut. The complaint could not be verified, but the request will be analyzed in the future
    again.

·   2004 (January) ­ The City conducted truck counts at the intersection of D Street and Bayview
    Street to determine truck traffic and type. The data still did not indicate truck short cut
    activity. The City began working on the commercial vehicle prohibition ordinance
    amendment with City Attorney's office.

·   2004 (February) - The GPNA requested for the data and findings for the study of conversion
    of D Street a two-way street. They also requested for the installation of speed humps on D
    Street. The requested information was provided; however, the request for speed humps was
    denied.

·   2004 (April) ­ The City conducted pedestrian counts at the intersection of First Street and D
    Street. Excess traffic signs were removed.

·   2004 (June) ­ The City met with the new Gerstle Park neighborhood representatives with a
    very positive note to address the traffic and parking-related matters of the entire
    neighborhood. The representatives had many ideas and requests.

·   2004 (August) ­ The City and the representatives of the GPNA met again. The City provided
    the Association with a large neighborhood street network map to denote all of their traffic and
    parking concerns. The goal was to review the information with the representatives, come up
    with a work program to analyze each item, come up with recommendations, meet with the
    neighborhood representatives, and then discuss the final recommendations with the
    neighborhood association. We would then prepare a comprehensive neighborhood traffic
    operation study to present to the City Council and request authorization to implement these
    recommendations, authorize us to apply for grants or, provide us with funding to implement.

·   2005 (December) ­ The GPNA met with the mayor and requested traffic calming program to
    be resumed. They offered a copy of other cities' policies for neighborhood traffic calming
    compiled from the internet. The City's traffic calming program to study, implement, and
    research has been on hold because of City's financial situation.

·   2006 (March and April) ­ The City Attorney's office reviewed the commercial vehicle
    ordinance amendment and provided legal advice that it is possible to be implemented.

·   2006 (June) ­ The GPNA requested to meet with the City Engineer and the City Traffic
    Engineer to discuss their neighborhood traffic issues denoted on the map. The City's Traffic
    Sergeant was also invited in the meeting. Their requests seemed to be reasonable. Some of
    the issues they brought up needed more clarification and representatives were to go back and
    provide additional information on the map and in detailed descriptions. The City informed
    the representatives that the truck prohibition ordinance may be done as soon as adequate
    staffing is available.



City of San Rafael                                                           Chapter 1: Introduction
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                  Page 3
                        Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


    Some of the requests at the meeting included enforcement. The Police Department has been
    continuously enforcing the traffic laws in the entire neighborhood, including speeding,
    pedestrian right-of-way, and sting program called PICASO.

·   2006 (October) ­ The Traffic Engineering division of the City of San Rafael initiated a
    comprehensive Traffic Operations study in order to identify measures to address the concerns
    of the neighborhood after discussing with the Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Committee.

         The study included a very comprehensive data collection effort by staff including manual
turning movement counts, 24-hour machine counts, speed surveys, intersection sight distance
studies, gap and delay studies and observation of traffic operations at selected intersections and
roadways within the Gerstle Park neighborhood and downtown to its north. Based on the City-
wide traffic model and the data collected in 2006 and 2007, staff developed the City's first ever
neighborhood specific traffic model for the Gerstle Park neighborhood.


   Staff met GPNA representatives more than ten times to discuss the various alternatives for
improvements. These alternatives were combinations of the following possibilities:

        -    Convert D Street to two-way travel north of 1st Street, and
        -    Different traffic controls at 1st Street/C Street and 1st Street/D Street intersections

         City staff and GPNA representatives together developed as many as sixteen (16)
alternatives for the neighborhood traffic circulation. Additional scenarios were developed by
modifying the alternatives and were discussed during the meetings as well. These resulted in
about eighty (80) scenarios for AM and PM peak hours and for baseline/existing and General
Plan 2020 (future) conditions. Staff analyzed the intersection and arterial operations to determine
the impacts of each scenario and then compared the values with the City's General Plan 2020
policy standards. Staff discussed and presented the results of the analysis of each scenario during
the meetings with the GPNA representatives. Detailed description of sixteen (16) alternatives is
included in this report. After exhausting all possible alternatives the GPNA representatives and
the City staff agreed to present four (4) neighborhood options to the residents during two general
neighborhood meetings, held in September and October, 2008.




City of San Rafael                                                                Chapter 1: Introduction
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                       Page 4
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Chapter 2: List of Alternatives
        The following is a list of all neighborhood options analyzed by the City of San Rafael
sorted by date of analysis.
September, 2008
·   Neighborhood Option #1: Low Level Intervention ­ Same (existing) street pattern plus
    restrict northbound left-turn movement at D Street/First Street and D Street/Frances Street
    during AM and PM peak periods (7:00-9:00 AM and 4:00-6:00 PM) and install a raised
    median on eastbound First Street at C Street

·   Neighborhood Option #2: Medium Level Intervention ­ Convert D Street to two-way
    between First and Second Streets plus install all-way stop control at First Street/C Street and
    restrict northbound left-turn movement at D Street/First Street and D Street/Frances Street
    during AM and PM Peak Periods (7:00-9:00 AM and 4:00-6:00 PM)

·   Neighborhood Option #3: High Level Intervention ­ Same (existing) street pattern plus
    install traffic signals at First Street/C Street and First Street/D Street intersections and install
    a raised median on eastbound First Street at C Street as identified in the General Plan 2020
    infrastructure improvements.

·   Existing Traffic Circulation Pattern: No change ­ The existing traffic circulation pattern
    and control would be maintained.

The City of San Rafael also studied the following options during the course of the Traffic
Operations study.

May, 2007
o   Convert D Street to two-way between First & Third Streets.
o   Convert D Street to two-way between First & Third Streets + Install all-way stop control at
    First St/C St intersection.
o   Convert D Street to two-way between First & Second Streets.
o   Convert D Street to two-way between First & Second Streets + Install all-way stop controls at
    First St/C St and First St/D St intersections.
o   Convert D Street to two-way between First & Second Streets. + Eliminate First Street link
    between C & D Streets.
o   Install traffic signals at First St/C St and First St/D St intersections.
o   Install all-way stop controls at First St/C St and First St/D St intersections.
o   Convert D Street to two-way between First & Second Streets + Install traffic signal at First
    St/D St intersection and all-way stop control at the First St/C St intersection.

July, 2007
o   Convert D Street to two-way between First & Second Streets + Install traffic signal controls
    at First St/C St and First St/D St intersections.
Alternatives A ­ E:

    A-    Convert D Street to two-way between First & Second Streets + prohibit northbound
          and southbound left turn movements at First St/D St intersection.


City of San Rafael                                                        Chapter 2: List of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                      Page 5
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


    B-    Convert D Street to two-way between First & Second Streets + prohibit northbound left
          turns at First St/D St intersection.
    C-    Convert D Street to two-way between First & Second Streets + prohibit northbound
          and southbound left turns at First St/D St intersection + install all-way stop control at
          First St/C St intersection.
    D-    Convert D Street to two-way between First & Second Streets + prohibit northbound left
          turns at First St/D St intersection + install all-way stop control at First St/C St
          intersection.
    E-    Install traffic signals at First St/D St and First St /C St, with no other changes to the
          local network.

April ­ June, 2008
o   Convert D Street to two-way between First and Second Streets + Install all-way stop control
    at First St/C St intersection
o   Above option with minor modifications - Convert D Street to two-way between First &
    Second Streets + Install all-way stop control at First St/C St intersection with turn restrictions
    during the AM & PM peak hours as follows ­
         Northbound right-turn restriction at D St/Antonette Ave intersection, and
         Northbound left-turn restriction at First St/D St, D St/Frances St, and D St/Ross St
             intersections.




City of San Rafael                                                       Chapter 2: List of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                     Page 6
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Section 3.1: ALTERNATIVE 1
Convert D Street to two-way between First and Third Streets.


Summary of AM Peak Hour Conditions
        This alternative would perform relatively well under both existing and General
Plan 2020 conditions during the morning peak hour, but each would encounter significant
localized impacts (although not widespread system failure). The significant impacts,
which would be worse under General Plan 2020 conditions, would be along the D Street
corridor north of Second Street, and at Second/C and First/C. In other areas besides these
(like most of the Gerstle Park neighborhood), traffic would continue to flow smoothly
under     existing     and      General
Plan 2020 conditions.
        One of the most noticeable
and     significant      impacts      of
Alternative 1 would be increased
queuing on southbound D Street
between Second Street and Fifth
Avenue. At times, queues would
extend along the entire length of
this segment, in turn causing
congestion      on     the     east-west
arterials, particularly Third Street       Alternative 1 would cause southbound D
                                           Street (shown here looking south from
and Fourth Street, because drivers         Fourth Street) to become congested between
on these streets would be unable to        Second Street and Fifth Avenue

turn onto D Street due to vehicle stacking. This condition would be present under
existing conditions with Alternative 1, but would worsen under General Plan 2020
conditions. At Third/D under General Plan 2020 conditions with Alternative 1, the
average westbound queue would extend 275 feet over base General Plan 2020 conditions
and the average southbound queue would increase by 209 feet. This would result from


City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 7
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


increased queuing and spillover on the segment of southbound D Street between Second
and Third Streets due to the introduction of conflicting northbound movements and
additional delay with the opening of D Street to two-way to Third Street. The average
delay at Third/D is expected to increase by one minute or more on all three approaches to
this intersection under General Plan 2020 conditions with this alternative. Westbound
Third Street will be affected by the queuing on southbound D Street for several blocks.
The most affected lane will be the far left lane of Third Street, although the congestion in
this lane will create friction on the other lanes of Third Street, meaning that there will be
more lane changes, leading to congestion in other lanes of Third Street. Under General
Plan 2020 conditions with Alternative 1, westbound Third Street and southbound D
Street approaches would both operate at Level of Service (LOS) "F" in terms of
arterial operation.
        Alternative 1 would also cause queuing on northbound D Street at Third Street,
though to a lesser extent than the southbound D Street queuing. At Third/D under
General Plan 2020 conditions with Alternative 1, the average northbound queue would
increase by 278 feet. This northbound queue, however, would generally be contained to
the block between Second and Third Streets during the AM peak hour.
        Additional         impacts          of
Alternative 1 would be increased
congestion at the intersection of
First/C and at the northbound approach
to Second/C. An additional 84 feet of
average      northbound         queuing     is
expected       under      Alternative       1
compared      to   base        conditions   at
Second/C under General Plan 2020
build-out (approximately 4 vehicles
                                                 An additional 84 feet of northbound queuing
per lane).     The average westbound             at Second/C (shown here) is expected under
queue at the intersection of First/C             General Plan conditions with Alternative 1

would increase by 101 feet during General Plan 2020 conditions over base General Plan
conditions, and queues at all three approaches to this intersection may extend block


City of San Rafael                                               Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                 Page 8
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


storage lengths at high points of the peak hour. Most significantly, the Level of Service
(LOS) at First/C would drop from LOS "A" under base General Plan conditions to LOS
"E" under General Plan conditions with Alternative 1, and each vehicle would experience
an additional 36 seconds of delay, on average. It should be noted, however, that no
change in LOS would be expected at First/C under existing volumes with Alternative 1,
so the impacts at this intersection are acute in the long-term. These impacts would be
with the intersection controls as they are now.
        The route from D Street to First Street to C Street, which is the existing flow
pattern, would continue to be well-used under Alternative 1. This alternative would not
have major impacts on current traffic trends and patterns in the Gerstle
Park neighborhood.
        Under existing conditions with Alternative 1, one intersection, Third/A, would be
forced to operate unacceptably by City's Level of Service (LOS) policy standards. Two
arterial segments (northbound A Street and westbound Third Street) would deteriorate to
LOS "F" operation under existing conditions.           Under General Plan 2020 volumes,
Alternative 1 would cause three intersections to operate unacceptably by City's policy
standards (Third/B, Third/A and Third/D). Two arterial segments (southbound D Street
and westbound Third Street) would fail.


Summary of PM Peak Hour Conditions
        In general, more northbound vehicles would travel on D Street similar to the
current traffic pattern because of more direct and convenient access up to Third Street.
However, as congestion on D Street would increase, northbound vehicles would divert to
alternate routes in the neighborhood to avoid the congestion, and the resulting delay and
queuing. Shifting of traffic would occur much before the intersection of First Street/D
Street. In fact, fewer vehicles would turn right at First Street/D Street toward First
Street/C Street. Eastbound traffic volume on First Street would decrease by 230 vehicles
per hour during the PM peak hour.
        Diversions from D Street to C Street would be significant. Congestion and delay
would increase at the intersections on C Street inside the neighborhood. There would be



City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 9
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


steady increase in northbound vehicle volume and associated longer delays on C Street
starting from north of San Rafael Avenue during the PM peak hour as follows--
                                                   Additional Northbound Vehicles
              Intersections
                                                         (during PM Peak hour)
      C Street and Octavia Street                                  50
       C Street and Taylor Street                                  100
      C Street and Treanor Street                                  120
        C Street and First Street                                  120




Diversions from northbound D Street to           Northbound C Street near San Rafael
other neighborhood streets such as C             Avenue would carry more traffic as
Street would start at San Rafael Avenue,         diversion through the neighborhood
well ahead of the intersection of First          increases
Street/D Street

        Diversion of northbound traffic would also occur to B Street and Marin Street.
For example, northbound vehicle volume would increase by 20 vehicles per hour at the
intersection of Marin Street and Ross Street during the PM peak hour; northbound
vehicle volume would increase by additional 50 vehicles per hour during the PM peak
hour at the intersection of B Street/Bayview Street and Taylor Street/Woodland Avenue.
        The intersection of Second Street and D Street would now be a conflict point for
northbound through and southbound left-turning traffic. During the PM peak hour, 320
vehicles would travel north at the intersection of Second Street and D Street. Due to such
high volume of oncoming northbound traffic, the average delay for each southbound

City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 10
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


vehicle would increase by more than 430 seconds during the PM peak hour. This
effectively means that the vehicles would have to wait several cycles before proceeding
through the intersection. As a consequence of longer delay, the southbound queue would
increase. The average southbound queue is expected to increase by 200 feet, which is
equivalent to an additional 8 vehicles per lane. This queue would occupy the entire
length of the block. The westbound traffic on Third Street that would be waiting to turn
left on D Street would not be able to do so. This far left lane on Third Street would back
up and add to the friction in the system. The delay for westbound Third Street would
increase by one minute on average. Congestion, delay and queuing would increase at the
upstream intersections of Third Street, which would negatively impact the
arterial operations.
        The existing crosswalk of Second Street on the east side of D Street would have
to be removed to minimize the conflicts between pedestrians and vehicles.




Second Street/D Street (pictured above)           Southbound queues on D Street (pictured
would be a conflict point of northbound           above) would occupy the entire block,
and southbound traffic. Southbound left           preventing vehicle entry from westbound
turning traffic would have to find adequate       Third Street Operation of this major east-
gaps in the northbound through traffic            west arterial would be negatively impacted.
stream & would experience longer delay            Pictured above is the southbound queue on
and queue build-up                                D Street viewed from Third Street
        Another new conflict point for northbound and southbound vehicles would be
created at the intersection of D Street and Third Street. 250 vehicles would use the
northbound approach of D Street at this intersection. Average delay and queue would


City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 11
                        Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


 also increase for conflicting southbound and northbound traffic at this intersection. For
 example, the average delay of northbound traffic would increase by more than two
 minutes and the northbound queue would increase by more than 300 feet. In other words,
 additional 12 vehicles would wait in the queue. Congestion, queuing and delay on Fourth
 Street at its intersection with D Street would also increase.
         Cumulative impact of the conditions described above would create negative
 impact on the traffic operations of the major east-west arterials such as Second Street,
 Third Street and Fourth Street.           The following arterials would fail in terms
 of operations--
              ·   Westbound Third Street
              ·   Westbound Fourth Street
              ·   Northbound and southbound D Street
         The intersections located in the vicinity would be adversely affected.               Near
 complete system failure would occur in the network when the volume is high toward the
 end of the peak hour.
         Side street traffic would be affected in the neighborhood during the PM peak
 hour. For example- long queues would form on eastbound Frances Street. The length of
 the queue would increase with increasing traffic volume in the network. At times, the
 queue length would exceed the length of the block and traffic would overflow to E Street.
 Accident potential would increase as lack of adequate gaps would lead the driver to take
 more chances to enter the mainstream traffic.




Queues on eastbound Frances Street                 Pictured above is Ross Street at D Street.
(pictured above) would exceed the length of        Side street traffic would be affected as
the block with some overflow traffic on E          vehicles would not be discharged to D
Street                                             Street due to lack of adequate gaps

 City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
 Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 12
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        Similarly, the vehicles exiting driveways onto D Street would experience longer
delays as fewer gaps would be present in the two-way traffic stream on D Street.
Accident potential may also increase in this case as well. Potentially more red zones
would be required to improve the motorists' line of sight to assist in decision-making.
        It was determined that one northbound through traffic lane would be required to
accommodate the northbound vehicles on D Street between First Street and Third Street.
Turn pockets would have to be provided on D Street at the intersections. Also, restriping
of the existing lanes would be necessary to align the receiving lanes with the incoming
lanes and to accommodate the turn pockets. This would be a challenging task and would
require removal of all on-street parking spaces from both sides of D Street for the
segment between Frances Street and Third Street. Two southbound through lanes would
be necessary for the segment of D Street from Third Street to Fourth Street. Parking
spaces from the west side of D Street would have to be removed.
        This alternative would cause major operational problems at the driveway of the
Arco gas station on D Street. Because of the limited on-site circulation and lack of gaps
to discharge the on-site traffic, long static queues would be formed at the driveway exit.
The queue would not dissipate anytime during the PM peak hour. Moreover, driveway
operation would spill over to Second Street and D Street.
        Due to increase in congestion and delay in the network, several intersections in
the network would be severely affected. The following intersections would be forced by
this alternative to operate below the City's policy for LOS standard under
existing volumes--
             ·   Second Street and D Street
             ·   Third Street and A Street
             ·   Third Street and B Street
             ·   Third Street and D Street
        The trend of the existing Average Daily Traffic (ADT) counts show that similar
traffic conditions would exist in the network during the noon lunchtime peak hour and the
afternoon school dismissal peak hour as well.          The conditions would progressively
worsen from midday to the PM peak hour. Traffic volume in the network may start



City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 13
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


diminishing from 7:00 PM onward on a typical weekday. The benefit of the two-way D
Street would be more noticeable during nighttime from 7:00 PM till 7:00 AM effectively.
        Neighborhood traffic calming measures may have to be installed for the safety of
the road users in future if applicable warrants (such as traffic volume, accident history,
and 85 percentile speed criteria for roadway segments) are satisfied due to
diverted volumes.
        Under the General Plan 2020 scenario, due to increased traffic volume in the
network, all the above-mentioned conditions would worsen. In general, as the traffic
volume would increase, shifting of traffic would occur, volume of conflicting movements
would increase, and vehicles would experience longer delays.                In addition to the
intersections that do not satisfy the City's policy for LOS standards mentioned earlier, the
following intersections would not satisfy the City's policy--
             ·   Third Street and C Street (LOS "F")
             ·   Fourth Street and A Street (LOS "F")
The following arterials would fail in terms of operations--
             ·   Westbound Fourth Street
             ·   Northbound and southbound D Street
             ·   Northbound C Street


Advantages
    o No significant queuing is expected at the northbound approach to Second/D, and
        consequently D Street through the Gerstle Park neighborhood, under either
        existing or General Plan 2020 conditions during the AM peak hour. (However,
        this would not be true during the PM peak hour).
    o During the AM peak hour, there are not expected to be major queuing or delay
        impacts to the local streets within the Gerstle Park neighborhood under either
        existing or General Plan 2020 conditions with Alternative 1, except at First/C.
    o The opening of D Street to two-way would provide more convenient and direct
        access to Third Street for D Street drivers.
    o Minimal diversion to C Street from D Street is expected during the AM peak
        hour. Under existing and General Plan 2020 volumes during the AM peak, fewer


City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 14
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        than 20 vehicles per hour are expected to divert to C Street under Alternative 1.
        Instead, more traffic diverting from D Street is expected to use B Street via the
        southern east-west roadways in the Gerstle Park neighborhood such as Bayview
        Street, Octavia Street, and Taylor Street. The same scenario would exist under
        PM peak hour conditions when volumes are low and D Street is not
        overly congested.
    o During the PM peak hour, the volume of eastbound vehicles on First Street at C
        Street would decrease.


Disadvantages
    o Operational problems at the D
        Street driveway of the Arco gas
        station at southwest corner of
        Second/D are expected, due to the
        proximity of the exit driveway to
        Second Street.
    o Heavy queuing on Second, Third
        and Fourth Streets is expected
        under both existing and General
                                                 Heavy queuing and congestion on Second
        Plan 2020 conditions during both
                                                 Street would be expected under all
        peak hours, but this would not be        scenarios studied
        entirely due to the changes of
        Alternative 1.
    o Operation at First/C would deteriorate to LOS E under General Plan 2020
        conditions during the AM peak hour. There would be lesser impacts under
        existing volumes.
    o Alternative 1 would cause significant queuing of southbound D Street traffic
        between Second Street and Fifth Avenue at most points during the AM peak hour.
        These queues would in turn spill over to Third Street and Fourth Street.




City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 15
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


    o Parking would be lost on D Street between Frances and Third Streets, as changes
        to lane geometry would need to be made on D Street. Aligning the reconfigured
        traffic lanes would be challenging.
    o After 5:30 PM, as the volume in the network increases, the queue on northbound
        D Street at Second Street would extend up to the intersection of D Street and
        Bayview Street.        Consequently, vehicles on northbound D Street would
        experience longer delays.
    o During the PM peak hour, traffic would divert off of D Street when there is
        congestion on this roadway and would instead use the neighborhood streets.
        Congestion and delay at neighborhood intersections would increase. During the
        PM peak hour when there is congestion on D Street, the volume of northbound
        vehicles on C Street would steadily increase through the neighborhood
        intersections, and vehicles exiting driveways onto D Street would experience
        longer delays.
    o Near-complete system failure would occur in the network when the volume is
        high toward the end of the PM peak hour. Operations of major arterials and
        adjacent intersections would be negatively affected.
    o The existing crosswalk on the east side of Second Street at its intersection with D
        Street would have to be removed
    o During the AM peak hour, one intersection would fail according to the City's
        policy for LOS standards under existing volumes. Two intersections would fail
        under the PM peak hour General Plan 2020 volume scenario. During the PM
        peak hour, four intersections would fail according to the City's policy for LOS
        standards under existing volumes. An additional two intersections would fail
        under the PM peak hour General Plan 2020 volume scenario.




City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 16
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Possible Mitigations
        Under AM peak hour conditions, traffic is expected to flow smoothly under
Alternative 1 except on D Street north of Second Street and at First/C. Under the PM
peak hour volumes, the major impact of this alternative is expected on C Street and D
Street as well as on the major east-west arterials.      Mitigations on D Street would be
necessary in the short-term, and improvements at First/C would be more important in
the long-term.
        Although a traffic signal or all-way stop controls are not currently warranted at
the intersection of First/C, the warrants may be closer to being met under General Plan
2020 conditions with the alternative due to higher volumes and diversion traffic causing
increased congestion. The installation of a traffic signal or all-way stop controls at
First/C, if warranted, may help to address turning movement conflicts and right-of-way
confusion (which would be exacerbated by congestion at this intersection resulting from
the changes of the alternative).         However, this may negatively affect LOS at
this intersection.
        It was observed during the field visits to the intersection of First Street and C
Street that eastbound vehicles on First Street often do not stay in their designated lane as
they approach C Street (i.e. they cut the turn short). In order to maintain the directional
traffic in its designated lanes, raised median on the west leg of First Street at its
intersection with C Street may be constructed. This median may extend up to the
intersection with D Street.
        The modifications to driveways at the Arco gas station on the southwest corner of
Second/D will be necessary if D Street is to be opened to two-way traffic, since there are
expected to be very few opportunities to turn out of the gas station to D Street at most
times of the day. Changes may negatively affect the business of this gas station due to
further limited on-site circulation. The gas station traffic would also spillover to Second
and D Streets. The proposed changes could be any or, combination of the following--




City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 17
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


             ·   One-way entry and exit
             ·   Turning restrictions on D Street
             ·   Closure of driveways on D Street
        One solution to the southbound queuing on D Street north of Second Street may
be to re-time the signals along this corridor, and potentially provide left turn phasing.
The conflicting movement of northbound and southbound left-turning traffic at the
intersection of Second Street and D Street may be separated by assigning right-of-way to
the vehicles. Adding a separate left-turn phase to the existing signal would satisfy this
requirement. However, since all of the Downtown signals are part of one coordinated
system, this would require changes to all signals in Downtown. Giving favor to D Street
traffic would improve traffic flow on this street but would likely mean higher delays at
other locations in the Downtown system or for conflicting traffic streams. Adding left
turn arrows at Third/D and Second/D would be detrimental to intersection level of
service, and would negatively impact Third and Second Street arterials, which are major
thoroughfares and are roadways of regional significance.
        Because D Street is currently a one-way street north of First Street, converting it
to two-way without any other changes will reduce the capacity of this segment by at least
50%.     Therefore, the only possible mitigation to retain capacity on D Street is to
eliminate on-street parking and provide additional traffic lanes. Parking would need to be
removed on D Street between Frances Street and Third Street.                 This would not
completely mitigate Alternative 1's impacts, as the conflicting movements would
continue to exist and vehicle delay would remain. However, removing parking would
help to reduce queue lengths on D Street and would allow for easier turns onto D Street
from side streets and driveways. The removal of parking on D Street was assumed for
the analysis.




City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 18
                          Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Section 3.2: ALTERNATIVE 2
Convert D Street to two-way between First and Third Streets. Install all-way stop
controls at First/C.


Summary of AM Peak Hour Conditions
        Alternative 2 is similar to
Alternative 1, but it includes all-way
stop controls at First/C.          All-way
stop    warrants     at     First/C    were
evaluated, but the warrants are not
met.    However, this scenario was
evaluated     due    to      neighborhood
requests and to see the effects of
changes of the intersection controls.
                                                Alternative 2 would cause queuing on D
The    stop-controls       would      clarify   Street (shown here looking north from First
right-of-way for all vehicles entering          Street) in the southbound direction between
                                                Second Street and Fifth Avenue

the intersection. Alternative 2 would
result in noticeable and undesirable
operational problems along the D
Street corridor, both in the Gerstle
Park neighborhood and north of
Second Street.      Impacts would be
seen at several major locations, but
not    system-wide.            Southbound
queuing on D Street in north of
Second Street would impact Third,
Fourth Street and Fifth Avenue, and
                                                Queuing on southbound D Street as a result of
northbound queuing on D Street                  Alternative 2 would impact Third Street (shown
                                                here) due to the inability of drivers to turn onto
                                                D Street
City of San Rafael                                                 Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                  Page 19
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


would occasionally extend to Bayview Street, affecting side streets in the Gerstle Park
neighborhood. Although Alternative 2 would result in these problems along D Street, the
intersection of First/C would be expected to operate without any significant delay or
queuing, since the installation of the all-way stop controls at First/C would introduce
impedance and would discourage drivers from using this intersection.
        Similar to Alternative 1, one of the most noticeable and significant impacts of
Alternative 2 would be increased queuing on southbound D Street between Second Street
and Fifth Avenue. At times, queues would extend along the entire length of this segment,
in turn causing congestion on the east-west arterials because drivers on these streets
would be unable to turn onto D Street due to queuing. This condition would be present
under existing conditions with Alternative 2, but would worsen under General Plan 2020
conditions. At Third/D under General Plan 2020 conditions with Alternative 2, the
average westbound queue would extend 276 feet over base General Plan 2020 conditions
and the average southbound queue would increase by 221 feet. This would result from
increased queuing and spillover on the segment of southbound D Street between Second
and Third Streets due to the introduction of conflicting northbound movements and
additional delay with the opening of D Street to two-way to Third Street. The new
conflicting movements would be between the northbound left turn and southbound
through movements at Third/D, and the northbound through and southbound left turn
movements at Second/D. The average delay at Third/D is expected to increase by one
minute or more on all three approaches to this intersection under General Plan 2020
conditions with this alternative. Third, Fourth Street and Fifth Avenue will be affected
by the queuing on southbound D Street for several blocks on either side of D Street. The
most affected lane will be the far left lane of Third Street, although the congestion in this
lane will create friction on the other lanes of Third Street, meaning that there will be
more lane changes, leading to congestion in other lanes of Third Street. Under General
Plan 2020 conditions with Alternative 2, westbound Third Street, eastbound Fifth Avenue
and southbound and northbound D Street would operate at Level of Service (LOS) "F" in
terms of arterial operation.


City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 20
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        Alternative 2 would also
cause queuing on northbound D
Street at Third Street as well as at
Second Street. At the height of the
AM peak hour, the northbound D
Street queues would extend from
Third Street past Ross Street and
even to Bayview Street.          Under
General Plan 2020 conditions, this
northbound D Street queuing may
                                           Alternative 2 would cause queuing on D Street
spillover in time past the end of the      in the northbound direction from Bayview
AM peak hour, as it may take a             Street to Second Street (northbound D Street at
                                           Bayview Street shown here)
while to dissipate. At Third/D under
General Plan 2020 conditions with Alternative 2, the average northbound queue would
increase by 271 feet.
        The changes of Alternative 2 are expected to have no major impacts to the
intersection of First/C, even with the installation of all-way stop controls at this location.
Neither increases in queuing nor delay are expected at First/C during the AM peak hour
under either existing or General Plan 2020 volumes. The installation of all-way stop
controls at First/C may make the intersection easier to navigate, without introducing any
noticeable negative operational impacts. It is expected that the installation of all-way
stop controls at First/C will make routes through this intersection more undesirable, and
the stop controls would introduce impedance on routes through this intersection. Because
of the stop controls, fewer vehicles will divert to C Street through the Gerstle Park
neighborhood, and they would remain on D Street or divert to B Street via the southern
east-west roadways in the Gerstle Park neighborhood, such as Octavia, Taylor and
Bayview Streets. B Street would see an increase of about 50 vehicles per hour, and
First/C would experience a decrease in eastbound volumes of about 190 vehicles per hour
under existing and General Plan 2020 conditions. The simulation model calculated travel
time on all routes through the network, and determined that D Street would be a better
route as opposed to C Street. However, it is our judgment that during the height of the


City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 21
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


AM peak hour, more vehicles will divert to C Street, as people tend to choose routes
where they are continually moving, rather than stopped, even if it means a longer
travel time.
        Under existing conditions with Alternative 2, two intersections, Third/A and
Third/D, would be forced to operate unacceptably by City's Level of Service (LOS)
policy standards. However, level of service at several intersections on Second Street may
improve slightly. Under General Plan 2020 volumes, Alternative 2 would cause four
intersections to operate unacceptably (Third/A, Third/D, Fifth/D and Fifth/E). Under
existing conditions, four arterial segments will operate at LOS "F": eastbound Second
Street, northbound A Street, southbound D Street, and westbound Third Street. Under
the General Plan 2020 scenario, eastbound Fifth Avenue, northbound D Street,
southbound D Street and westbound Third Street will all be forced from LOS "C"
operation under base conditions to LOS "F" operation with Alternative 2.


Summary of PM Peak Hour Conditions
        The advantage of this alternative would be localized in this area of First/C.
Motorists traveling through the rest of the network would experience greater discomfort
due to increased congestion, longer delays, and queues.




Alternative 2 would reduce confusion               Intersections such as C Street/Octavia
among motorists by assigning right of way          Street (pictured above), which are located
of the vehicles by installation of all-way         at the interior of the neighborhood, would
stop controls at the two intersections.            experience considerable increase in
Pictured above is First Street/C Street            northbound traffic volume with associated
                                                   increase in delay

City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 22
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        As more traffic travels north on D Street, congestion, delay at the neighborhood
intersections on D Street would increase. Northbound traffic would seek alternate route
to avoid congestion and delay. Traffic would divert to neighborhood streets. Significant
diversion of northbound traffic would occur from D Street to C Street. It would start
occurring through side streets, such as San Rafael Avenue, much before the intersection
of First Street and D Street. Fewer right-turns would occur at First Street/D Street toward
First Street/C Street. The eastbound vehicle volume on First Street would decrease by
more than 350 vehicles during the PM peak hour. C Street would experience steady
increase in northbound traffic from north of San Rafael Avenue up to First Street. For
example, the northbound traffic at the intersection of First Street and C Street would
increase by more than 170 vehicles per hour during the PM peak hour.
        A new conflict point would be created for the northbound through and
southbound left-turning vehicles at Second Street/D Street. 450 vehicles during the PM
peak hour would travel north at the intersection of Second Street and D Street. As a
result, the oncoming southbound traffic would have to wait longer to find adequate gap
before proceeding through the intersection. The increase in delay for southbound left-
turning traffic would be excessively high during the PM peak hour. The southbound
queue length would increase by more than 200 feet; in other words, 8 more vehicles
would wait in each lane to proceed through the intersection. The queue would occupy the
entire block. The westbound vehicles on Third Street waiting to turn left on D Street
would not be able to do so. The average vehicle delay on westbound Third Street at D
Street would increase by 60 seconds. Congestion, delay and queuing would increase at
the upstream intersections of Third Street, which would negatively impact the
arterial operations.
        The existing crosswalk of Second Street on the east side of D Street would have
to be removed to minimize the conflicts between pedestrians and vehicles.
        Another new conflict point would be created at the intersection of Third Street
and D Street. 260 vehicles would travel north at the intersection of Third Street and D
Street. Average delay and queue would also increase for conflicting southbound and
northbound traffic at the intersection of Third Street and D Street. For example, the
average delay of northbound traffic would increase by more than one minute and the


City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 23
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


queue would increase by 150 feet (equivalent to length of 6 vehicles). The congestion,
delay and queuing on Fourth Street at its intersection with D Street would also increase.
        The major arterials such as Second Street, Third Street and Fourth Street would
experience very heavy queuing toward the end of the peak hour when the volume in the
network would be very high. Under the existing traffic volume scenario, operations of
the following arterials would fail--
             ·   Westbound Third Street
             ·   Eastbound Fifth Avenue
             ·   Northbound and southbound C Street
             ·   Northbound and southbound D Street
             ·   Southbound E Street
        Also, the intersections located in the vicinity would be adversely affected. Near
complete system failure would occur in the network when the volume is high toward the
end of the peak hour.
        The neighborhood intersections would be affected.            As diversions increase
through the neighborhood streets, the eastbound and northbound traffic volumes at these
intersections would increase. Consequently, delays for the vehicles would increase,
which would bring down the levels of service. Vehicles would experience excessively
high delay while passing through the following intersections--
             ·   First Street and C Street
             ·   First Street and D Street
             ·   First Street and E Street
             ·   C Street and Treanor Street
             ·   D Street and Frances Street
             ·   D Street and Taylor Street
             ·   D Street and San Rafael Avenue
             ·   D Street and Antonette Avenue
        Side street traffic would be affected in the neighborhood. For example, long
queues would form on eastbound Frances Street. When the volume in the network is
high, the queue length would exceed the block length. Traffic would spill over to E
Street. Vehicles would experience longer delays at the two intersections on Frances


City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 24
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Street. Accident potential would also increase as lack of adequate gaps would lead the
drivers to take more chances to enter the mainstream traffic.
        Similarly, the vehicles exiting the driveways onto D Street would experience
longer delays because fewer gaps would be present in the two-way traffic stream on
D Street.
        It was determined that one northbound through traffic lane would be required to
accommodate the northbound vehicles on D Street between First Street and Third Street.
Turn pockets would have to be provided on D Street at the intersections. Also, restriping
of the existing lanes would be necessary to align the receiving lanes with the incoming
lanes and to accommodate the turn pockets. This would be a challenging task and would
require removal of all on-street parking spaces from both sides of D Street for the
segment between Frances Street and Third Street. Two southbound through lanes would
be necessary for the segment of D Street from Third Street to Fourth Street. Parking
spaces from the west side of D Street would have to be removed.
        In general, the traffic in the network would experience longer delay per vehicle on
average compared to the existing network configuration. This would result in longer
queue and delays at the adjacent intersections as well as at intersections located inside the
neighborhood. The following intersections would be forced by this alternative to operate
below the City's policy for LOS standards--
             ·   Second Street and D Street
             ·   Third Street and A Street
             ·   Third Street and B Street
             ·   Third Street and C Street
             ·   Third Street and D Street
             ·   Fifth Avenue and E Street
        The trend of the existing Average Daily Traffic (ADT) counts show that similar
traffic conditions would exist in the network during noon lunchtime peak hour and
afternoon school dismissal peak hour as well.          The conditions would progressively
worsen from midday to the PM peak hour. Traffic volume in the network may start
diminishing from 7:00 PM onward on a typical weekday. The benefit of the two-way D
Street would be more noticeable during nighttime from 7:00 PM till 7:00 AM effectively.


City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 25
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        Neighborhood traffic calming measures may have to be installed for the safety of
the road users in future if applicable warrants (such as traffic volume, accident history,
and 85 percentile speed criteria for roadway segments) are satisfied due to the increased
diversion expected.
        Under the General Plan 2020 scenario, the abovementioned situations would
worsen due to higher traffic volumes. In general, as the traffic volume would increase,
shifting of traffic would occur, volume of conflicting movements would increase and
vehicles would experience longer delays. The following intersections would be forced by
this alternative to operate below the standard set by the City's General Plan 2020 policy
for LOS--
    ·   Second Street and D Street
    ·   Third Street and B Street
    ·   Third Street and C Street
    ·   Third Street and D Street
    ·   Fourth Street and A Street
    ·   Fifth Avenue and B Street
    ·   Fifth Avenue and C Street
    ·   Fifth Avenue and E Street
    ·   D Street and Bayview Street


Also, the following arterials would fail in terms of operations--
    ·   Eastbound Second Street
    ·   Eastbound Fourth Street
    ·   Eastbound Fifth Avenue
    ·   Northbound and southbound C Street
    ·   Northbound and southbound D Street
    ·   Southbound E Street


Advantages
    o No operational problems or queuing are expected at First/C with all-way stop
        controls, under either existing or General Plan 2020 volumes with Alternative 2,


City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 26
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        because volumes would be focused on D Street due to the impedance that the all-
        way stop controls would create. (However, if the queues on D Street grow to be
        long, drivers may use First/C.)
    o Converting D Street to two-way would provide shorter and more convenient
        access to Third Street for D Street drivers. The new route would be more direct.
    o No major diversion to C Street from D Street is expected during the AM peak
        hour (and during the PM peak hour when volumes are low). Instead, more traffic
        diverting from D Street is expected to use B Street.


Disadvantages
    o During the high points of the AM peak hour, the northbound D Street approach to
        Second Street would queue past Ross Street (and occasionally all the way to
        Bayview Street).
    o The northbound D Street approach to Third Street would queue along the entire
        length of the block (between Second and Third Streets) occasionally during the
        AM peak hour.
    o Operational problems at the D Street driveway of the Arco gas station are
        expected because of the proximity of the exit driveway to Second Street. There
        would be very few gaps for vehicles leaving the gas station because of
        northbound queuing at the signal at Second/D.
    o Although not entirely due to Alternative 2, heavy queuing on the east-west
        arterials is expected under both existing and General Plan 2020 conditions.
    o Alternative 2 would cause significant queuing of southbound D Street traffic
        between Second Street and Fifth Avenue at most points during the AM peak hour.
        These queues would in turn spill over to Third Street, Fourth Street and
        Fifth Avenue.
    o Parking would be lost on D Street between Frances and Third Streets, as changes
        to lane geometry would need to be made on D Street. Aligning the reconfigured
        traffic lanes would be challenging.
    o The existing crosswalk on the east side of Second Street at its intersection with D
        Street would have to be removed.


City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 27
                        Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


    o Very heavy, almost solid, queuing would occur on the arterials and neighborhood
         streets when the traffic volume increases during the PM peak hour, causing near
         system failure.
    o Diversion through the neighborhood is expected during the PM peak hour when
         volumes are high on D Street.
    o Under the AM peak hour scenario, 2 intersections would not satisfy the City's
         policy for LOS standard under existing conditions. Under the AM peak hour
         General Plan 2020 volume scenario, 4 intersections would not satisfy the City's
         policy. Under the PM peak hour scenario, 6 intersections would not satisfy the
         City's policy for LOS standard under existing conditions. Under the PM peak
         hour General Plan 2020 volume scenario, 9 intersections would not satisfy the
         City's LOS policy.


Possible Mitigations
         Because D Street is currently a one-way street north of First Street, converting it
to two-way without any other changes will reduce the capacity of this segment. The only
possible mitigation to retain capacity on D Street is to eliminate on-street parking and
provide additional traffic lanes.
Parking would need to be
removed       between      Frances
Street    and     Third        Street.
However,      this    would       not
completely mitigate Alternative
2's impacts, as the conflicting
movements would continue to
exist and vehicle delay would
remain.     However, removing
parking would result in the
reduction of queue lengths on            The parking on the segment of D Street between
                                         Second and First Streets (shown here, looking
D Street and would allow for
                                         south) would need to be eliminated to
easier turns onto D Street from          accommodate two-way traffic on D Street.


City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 28
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


side streets and driveways. The removal of parking on D Street was assumed for this
computer analysis.
        The driveways at the Arco gas station on the southwest corner of Second/D will
need to be modified if D Street is to be converted to two-way traffic (potentially
including driveway closure, which would impact the business of the gas station). The gas
station traffic would also spillover to Second and D Streets. The proposed changes could
be any or, combination of the following--
             ·   One-way entry and exit
             ·   Turning restrictions on D Street
             ·   Closure of driveways on D Street
        A way to address the southbound queuing on D Street may be to re-time the
signals along this corridor, and maybe provide left turn phasing.             The conflicting
movement of northbound and southbound left-turning traffic at the intersection of Second
Street and D Street may be separated by assigning right-of-way to the vehicles. Adding a
separate left-turn phase to the existing signal would satisfy this requirement. However,
since all of the Downtown signals are part of one coordinated system, this would require
major changes to all signals in Downtown. Giving priority to D Street traffic would
improve traffic flow on D Street but would likely mean higher delays at other locations in
the Downtown system or for conflicting traffic streams. Adding left turn arrows at
Third/D and Second/D would be detrimental to intersection level of service, and would
negatively impact Third and Second Streets, which are major thoroughfares and are
roadways of regional significance
        In order to address side street delay in the Gerstle Park neighborhood that may
result from northbound queuing on D Street, `Keep Clear' pavement markings may be
painted at unsignalized intersections along the D Street corridor. This would help to
facilitate turns to and from side streets, but it would not address the difficulty of turning
to and from driveways on D Street with solid D Street queuing.




City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 29
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Section 3.3: ALTERNATIVE 3
Convert D Street to two-way between First and Second Streets.


Summary of AM Peak Hour Conditions
        This alternative would not result in major impacts in the Gerstle Park
neighborhood during the AM peak hour. Instead, the most noticeable changes would be
observed on major east-west arterials. Compared to the other alternatives studied, this
scenario would perform well under existing and General Plan 2020 conditions.
        Alternative 3 would cause more of a shift of traffic from D Street to C Street than
Alternatives 1 and 2, although the diverted volumes would not cause operational
problems on C Street. Approximately 50 vehicles per hour above the existing C Street
volumes are expected to divert along this roadway south of First/C and north of San
Rafael Avenue with Alternative 3. Although the volumes at the northbound approach to
First/C would increase because of this diversion, fewer vehicles (approximately 125 per
hour) would access First/C from the west (from First/D).
        Delay at the southbound approach to Second/D would increase by 52 seconds per
vehicle under existing conditions, which would cause the queue at this approach to
exceed the block length, consequently increasing the average delay on westbound Third
Street at D Street by 32 seconds per vehicle. The average queue length would increase by
237 feet at the westbound approach to Third/D under existing conditions with
Alternative 3 implemented.
        Under the General Plan 2020 build-out scenario, conditions will worsen to some
degree due to the increase in traffic volumes using the system.              The LOS at the
intersection of Third/A will deteriorate from "B" to "F", and average delay would
increase substantially (by several minutes) at this intersection over baseline General Plan
conditions without the changes. Other significant increases in average intersection delay
would be experienced at Second/B (44 second increase over base General Plan
conditions), Third/B (47 second increase), Second/A (25 second increase), and Second/C
(23 second increase).


City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 30
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        No additional intersection or arterial level of service failures are expected under
existing conditions with Alternative 3, although the intersections of Third/A, Second/D
and Second/E a would be forced to operate at LOS "F" under General Plan 2020
conditions with Alternative 3. Westbound Third Street would be forced to operate at
LOS "F" under the General Plan 2020 plus Alternative 3 scenario.


Summary of PM Peak Hour Conditions
        D Street would be a popular route since it would provide direct access up to
Second Street. However, as the northbound D Street volume would increase, vehicles
would search for alternate routes to avoid congestion, delay and queuing. Traffic would
be shifted to neighborhood streets. The most significant shifting of traffic is expected to
occur from D Street to C Street.
        In general, vehicles would continue traveling north on D Street or would divert to
neighborhood streets much before the intersection of First Street and D Street. Fewer
vehicles would turn right on First Street at this intersection. There would be a reduction
of more than 220 vehicles per hour during the PM peak hour in the eastbound vehicle
volume at the intersection of First Street and C Street. Traffic on northbound C Street
would increase steadily from its intersection with Taylor Street to its intersection with
First Street during the PM peak hour as follows--


              Intersections                        Additional Northbound Vehicles
      C Street and Octavia Street                                  50
       C Street and Taylor Street                                  120
      C Street and Treanor Street                                  200
        C Street and First Street                                  200


        Some vehicles would seek other alternate routes. Those vehicles are expected to
use northbound B Street and northbound Marin Street.               Vehicle volumes at the
intersections located on these streets are expected to increase by 20 vehicles per hour
during the PM peak hour.

City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 31
                         Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study




Diversion of northbound traffic would occur          Intersection of Bayview/B Street and
on      other      neighborhood        streets.      Taylor Street/Woodland Avenue would
Neighborhood         intersections      would        carry additional traffic due to diversion.
experience increase in northbound traffic            To maintain capacity of the streets, on-
volume. Marin Street/Ross Street would be            street parking spaces may have to be
one such intersection (pictured above)               removed

        No major impact is expected at the intersections on D Street inside the
neighborhood. However, effects of the proposed change would be observed on D Street
north of First Street.
        At the intersection of Second Street and D Street, the northbound volume would
be 100 during the PM peak hour. The northbound traffic would conflict with southbound
traffic on D Street. The southbound left-turning vehicles would have to wait for adequate
gaps through the conflicting northbound traffic. The delay of the southbound traffic
would increase by more than half minute at this intersection; consequently, the
southbound queue would increase by 140 feet (equivalent to length of 6 vehicles per lane)
on average. When the traffic volume would increase in the network, the maximum
southbound queue would exceed the length of the block. This would negatively affect
the traffic on Third Street; because in this situation, the westbound traffic on Third Street
waiting to turn left on D Street would be unable to do so. In turn, the vehicle delay and
queuing on westbound Third Street would also increase and its effects would be carried
over to the upstream intersections on Third Street. In fact, the westbound Third Street
arterial would fail in terms of arterial operations with existing traffic volume in the




City of San Rafael                                               Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                Page 32
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


network. In turn, it would negatively impact the operations of the nearby intersections
during the PM peak hour.
        The existing crosswalk on Second Street east of D Street would have to be
removed to eliminate pedestrian/vehicle conflicts.
        It was determined that one additional lane would be required to accommodate the
northbound vehicles on D Street between First Street and Second Street. Turn pockets
would have to be provided on D Street at the intersections. Also, restriping of the
existing lanes would be necessary to align the receiving lanes with the incoming lanes
and to accommodate the turn pockets. This would be a challenging task as it would
require removal of all on-street parking spaces from both sides of D Street for the
segment between Frances Street and Second Street.
        Unlike the previous alternatives, the Arco gas station driveway would continue to
operate similar to the existing condition with nominal increase in delay for vehicles
exiting on to D Street.




Operation of the gas station driveway would Increased diversions in the core of the
not fail under Alternative 3                neighborhood would necessitate more red
                                            zones to assist in decision-making of the
                                            drivers. Pictured above is the intersection
                                            of C Street/Treanor Street

        Neighborhood traffic calming measures may have to be installed for the safety of
the road users in future if applicable warrants (such as traffic volume, accident history,
and 85 percentile speed criteria for roadway segments) are satisfied due to diversion.



City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 33
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        Vehicles exiting the driveways onto D Street would experience longer delays
because fewer gaps would be present in the two-way traffic stream on D Street.
        This alternative would force the following intersections to operate below the
standard set by the City's policy for LOS--
             ·   Third Street and A Street
             ·   Fourth Street and A Street
        The trend of the existing Average Daily Traffic (ADT) counts show that similar
traffic conditions would exist in the network during the noon lunchtime peak hour and the
afternoon school dismissal peak hour as well.              The conditions would progressively
worsen from midday to the PM peak hour. Traffic volume in the network may start
diminishing from 7:00 PM onward on a typical weekday. The benefit of the two-way D
Street would be more noticeable during nighttime from 7:00 PM till 7:00 AM effectively.
        Under the General Plan 2020 scenario, due to increase in traffic volume in the
system, all the above-mentioned conditions would worsen. In general, as the traffic as
the volume would increase, shifting of traffic would occur, volume of conflicting
movements would increase and vehicles would experience longer delays. Under the
increase traffic volume, the following arterial operations would fail--
             ·   Eastbound Second Street
             ·   Westbound Fourth Street
Also, this alternative would force the intersection of Fourth Street/A Street to operate
below the City's standard.


Advantages
    o During the AM peak hour, no significant queuing is expected at any of the Gerstle
        Park neighborhood intersections, although queuing would be experienced on
        mainline Second Street and on other major arterials. Only minimal queuing at the
        northbound approaches to Second/D and Second/C is expected during the bulk of
        the AM peak hour, under both existing and General Plan 2020 conditions.
    o This       alternative   does   not    result   in    major    impacts      in   the    Gerstle
        Park neighborhood.



City of San Rafael                                                  Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                   Page 34
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


    o The opening of D Street to two-way traffic would be more direct and convenient
        for drivers using D Street headed for Downtown.
    o Approximately 125 vehicles per hour would no longer use First/C from the west
        (from First/D) during the AM peak hour. Eastbound vehicle volume on First
        Street would decrease at C Street during the PM peak hour as well.


Disadvantages
    o Due to the proximity of the D Street exit driveway of the Arco gas station to
        Second Street, operational problems with the gas station at the southwest corner
        of Second/D are expected. There are expected to be a shortage of gaps for
        vehicles leaving the gas station due to northbound queuing at the signal at
        Second/D, further limiting on-site circulation.
    o Queuing at the southbound approach to Second/D would affect east-west arterials,
        particularly Third Street, during the AM peak hour.
    o On-street parking would be lost on D Street between Frances and Second Streets
        due to changes in the D Street lane geometry required to implement the
        alternative.      The alignment of new traffic lanes may be difficult to
        properly achieve.
    o Heavy queuing on Second, Third and Fourth Streets is expected under Alternative
        3, although this is not necessarily entirely due to the changes that would be part of
        this alternative.
    o   Approximately 50 vehicles per hour are expected to divert to C Street from D
        Street under this alternative during the AM peak hour. Diversion is also expected
        during the PM peak hour as traffic volumes rise.
    o No additional intersections would fail by the City's policy for LOS under existing
        AM peak hour conditions, but 3 intersections would be forced to fail under AM
        peak General Plan 2020 traffic volumes. Two additional intersections would not
        satisfy the City's policy for LOS under the existing PM peak volumes and 1
        intersection would be forced to fail under General Plan 2020 traffic volumes
        during the PM peak hour.



City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 35
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


    o The crosswalk on the east side of Second Street at its intersection with D Street
        would have to be removed.


Possible Mitigations
        Mitigations for Alternative 3 should focus on D Street north of Second Street, as
this is where the most noticeable impacts would be. Operation in the Gerstle Park
neighborhood with Alternative 3 would remain close to existing conditions, and in
general, the network would perform well with these changes compared to the other
alternatives during the AM peak hour.
        Converting D Street south of Second Street to two-way without will reduce the
capacity of this segment by at least 50%, since it is currently one-way. The only possible
mitigation in order to compensate and to retain capacity on D Street is to eliminate on-
street parking and provide additional traffic lanes. Approximately 10 total on-street
parking spaces will need to be removed on D Street between First and Second Streets
(counting spaces on both sides of the street and the loading zone). Removing parking
would help to reduce queue lengths on D Street and would allow for easier turns onto D
Street from side streets and driveways, although it would not completely mitigate the
changes. The removal of parking on D Street between First and Second Streets was
assumed for the computer simulation analysis.
        Modifications to driveways at the Arco gas station on the southwest corner of
Second/D will be necessary if D Street is opened to two-way traffic, since it is located
very close to the intersection of Second/D and there are expected to be very few
opportunities to turn out of the driveway. Unfortunately, changes may negatively affect
the business of this gas station. The gas station traffic would also spillover to Second and
D Streets. The proposed changes could be any or, combination of the following--
             ·   One-way entry and exit
             ·   Turning restrictions on D Street
             ·   Closure of driveways on D Street
        A solution to the southbound queuing on D Street north of Second Street may be
to re-time the signals along D Street and potentially provide left turn phasing. The
conflicting movement of northbound and southbound left-turning traffic at the


City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 36
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


intersection of Second Street and D Street may be separated by assigning right-of-way to
the vehicles. Adding a separate left-turn phase to the existing signal would satisfy this
requirement. However, since all of the Downtown signals are part of one coordinated
system, this would require changes to all signals Downtown. Favoring D Street traffic
would improve traffic flow on this street but would mean higher delays at other locations
in the system or for conflicting and side street traffic streams. Adding left turn arrows at
Third/D and Second/D would be detrimental to intersection level of service, and would
negatively impact Third and Second Streets, which are major thoroughfares and are
roadways of regional significance




Pictured above is Southbound B Street at          Pictured above is northbound B Street at
Second Street. Similar lane configuration         Second Street. Similar lane configuration
would be required for southbound D                would be required for northbound D Street
Street at Second Street                           at Second Street




City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 37
                          Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Section 3.4: ALTERNATIVE 4
Convert D Street to two-way between First and Second Streets. Install all-way stop
controls at First/C and First/D.


Summary of AM Peak Hour Conditions
          This scenario would perform well under existing conditions during the AM peak
hour, but would fail badly under General Plan 2020 conditions. Although there would be
minimal short-term impacts of Alternative 4, major mitigations would be necessary on
the major east-west arterials and in the Gerstle Park neighborhood to avoid operational
failure under long-term conditions.
          Only             minimal
increases in queuing would
result     from    this    scenario
under       existing      volumes
compared to base conditions
without          Alternative      4
implemented. Second Street
would experience queues that
exceed the block lengths
available to store the queues,
although this would not be
entirely    attributed     to   the
changes of Alternative 4, as           Alternative 4 would be expected to result in queuing
the      queuing    is    currently    on northbound D Street between Antonette Avenue
                                       and Second Street under General Plan 2020 volumes
experienced under existing             (D Street at Antonette Avenue, looking north, is
lane conditions during the             shown here)

AM peak hour. Additionally, constant queuing of southbound D Street traffic would be
expected between Second Street and Third Street for most of the AM peak hour.
Queuing on the southbound approach to First/D is not expected to exceed the block
length, and consequently not affect Second Street turning movements at D Street.



City of San Rafael                                                Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                 Page 38
                        Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


          Under the General Plan 2020 build-out scenario, all of the above-mentioned
conditions will worsen due to the increase in traffic volumes using the system. Increases
in queue lengths would be seen at more intersections than under existing conditions with
Alternative 4. Most significantly, queues on northbound D Street through the Gerstle
Park neighborhood would eventually extend from Second Street to almost Antonette
Avenue as the result of a cumulative snowball effect starting at around 8:30 AM. This
would, in turn, cause side street queuing on Frances Street, Ross Street and San Rafael
Avenue due to lack of gaps for turning on to D Street. Also, turns to and from driveways
along D Street would become difficult. On average over the entire AM peak hour, the
northbound D Street queue at Frances Street would increase by 163 feet over base
General Plan 2020 conditions. Alternative 4 would cause the intersection of D/Frances to
operate at LOS "E" under General Plan 2020 conditions during the AM peak hour. Level
of service at First/D would deteriorate from LOS "A" to LOS "C".
          First/C would operate at LOS "A" under both existing and General Plan 2020
conditions with the installation of all-way stop-controls and the other changes of
Alternative 4.      The installation of all-way stop controls at First/C may make the
intersection easier to navigate,
without       introducing       any
noticeable negative operational
impacts.       The reason that
First/C    would     continue     to
operate       without          major
problems        despite        some
congestion on northbound D
Street is because it is expected
that the installation of all-way
stop controls at First/C will
make      routes    through     this
                                       The intersection of D/Frances would fail under
intersection more undesirable,
                                       General Plan 2020 conditions with Alternative 4
and the stop controls would
introduce impedance on routes through this intersection. However, there will still be


City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 39
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


some diversion to C Street through the Gerstle Park neighborhood due to the queuing on
northbound D Street as a result of Alternative 4 (approximately 75 vehicles per hour). In
terms of this diversion to C Street, Alternative 4 would cause more of a shift of traffic
from D Street to C Street than Alternatives 1 and 2.            Approximately 10% of the
southbound D Street traffic at First Street would be diverted elsewhere due to the
impedance introduced by all-way stop controls at First/D.
        Alternative 4 would cause several Downtown intersections to operate at LOS "E",
which is poor but acceptable by City policy standards. D/Frances would operate at LOS
"F" because side street traffic would not, at times, be able to easily turn onto D Street due
to queuing. Alternative 4 would cause the level of service at many intersections to
deteriorate, but none would fail by City policy standards (under either existing or General
Plan 2020 volumes). Northbound D Street would fail in terms of arterial level of service
under General Plan 2020 conditions because of Alternative 4.


Summary of PM Peak Hour Conditions
        Right of way to the vehicles would be assigned by installing all-way stop signs at
the intersections of First Street and C Street, and First Street and D Street. Traffic
operations at these two intersections are expected to improve.
        D Street would be a much used route. However, delay of the northbound vehicle
would increase as the all-way stop sign would force every vehicle to stop at this
intersection. In fact, delay for northbound vehicles would increase from 20 seconds at
the intersection of Bayview Street to more than a minute at the intersection of
Frances Street.
        As impedance (all-way stop control) is created in their travel path, the northbound
vehicles on D Street would divert to neighborhood streets, such as C Street, B Street,
Marin Street, etc. to avoid congestion, queuing and delay. The diversions would occur
well ahead of First Street/D Street. Fewer right turns toward First Street/C Street would
occur at this intersection. The eastbound traffic volume on First Street would decrease by
300 vehicles per hour during the PM peak hour. Northbound traffic volume on C Street
would increase through its neighborhood intersections. For example, the northbound



City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 40
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


volume would increase by 40 vehicles at its intersection with Taylor Street, and by 50
vehicles at its intersections with Treanor Street and C Street during the PM peak hour.
        B Street, Marin Street, etc. would also experience increase in traffic volumes. For
example, additional 50 vehicles would travel northbound through the intersections on B
Street, which is quite significant for a neighborhood intersection for one hour. Majority
of the diverted vehicles would travel toward Woodland Avenue. Thus traffic would
spread out in the neighborhood. Additional 20 vehicles would use northbound Marin
Street during the PM peak hour.
        Over 350 vehicles would use the northbound approach of the intersection of
Second Street and D Street.          These vehicles would conflict with the oncoming
southbound vehicles increasing their average delay by one half minute during the PM
peak hour. In turn, this would increase queuing and delay on westbound Third Street.
The operations of westbound Third Street would fail under existing volume condition.
Cumulative effects of the above would create near-complete system failure in the
network when the PM peak hour volume is high.
        The existing crosswalk on Second Street east of D Street would have to be
removed to eliminate the pedestrian/vehicle conflicts.
        It was determined that one additional lane would be required to accommodate the
northbound vehicles on D Street between First Street and Second Street. Turn pockets
would have to be provided on D Street at both intersections. Restriping of the existing
lanes would be required to align the receiving lanes with the incoming lanes and to
accommodate the turn pockets. This would be a challenging task. It would require
removal of all on-street parking spaces from both sides of D Street for the segment
between Frances Street and Second Street.
        The majority of the intersections would satisfy the City's policy for LOS
standards. However, the intersection of Third Street and A Street would be forced to
operate at LOS "F", and this intersection would not satisfy the City's standard.
        The trend of the existing Average Daily Traffic (ADT) counts show that similar
traffic conditions would exist in the network during noon lunchtime peak hour and
afternoon school dismissal peak hour as well.          The conditions would progressively
worsen from midday to the PM peak hour. Traffic volume in the network may start


City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 41
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


diminishing from 7:00 PM onward on a typical weekday. The benefit of the two-way D
Street would be more noticeable during nighttime from 7:00 PM till 7:00 AM effectively.
        Neighborhood traffic calming measures may have to be installed for the safety of
the road users in future if applicable warrants (such as traffic volume, accident history,
and 85 percentile speed criteria for roadway segments) are satisfied.
        Under the General Plan 2020 scenario, due to increase in traffic volume in the
system, all the above-mentioned conditions would worsen. In general, as the traffic
volume would increase, shifting of traffic would occur, volume of conflicting movements
would increase and vehicles would experience longer delays under the General Plan 2020
traffic volume scenario. The intersection of Fourth Street and A Street would be forced
to operate at LOS "F" by this alternative and it would not satisfy the City's policy for
LOS standard. However, all other intersections are expected to satisfy the City's policy.
Operations of several arterials would be severely affected. Those are as follows--
             ·   Eastbound and westbound Fourth Street
             ·   Southbound E Street


Advantages
    o No operational problems would be experienced at First/C with all-way
        stop controls.
    o During the AM peak hour, no major increases in queuing would result from this
        scenario under existing volumes. D Street south of Second Street in the Gerstle
        Park neighborhood would not experience significant queuing under existing
        conditions with Alternative 4 during the AM peak hour.
    o The opening of D Street to two-way would provide more convenient access to
        Downtown for drivers traveling to and from the south. It would also provide a
        shorter, more direct route.


Disadvantages
    o Congestion problems at the D Street driveway of the Arco gas station at
        southwest corner of Second/D will occur because the exit driveway is very close



City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 42
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        to Second Street.            Internal on-site circulation at the gas station will be
        negatively affected.
    o Constant queuing of southbound D Street traffic between Second Street and Third
        Street would be expected during the AM peak hour.
    o Parking removal on D Street between Frances and Second Streets would be
        required in order to convert D Street to two-way. It would be challenging to align
        the reconfigured traffic lanes according to engineering standards.
    o Heavy queuing on Second, Third and Fourth Streets is expected under both
        existing and General Plan 2020 conditions, although this would not be entirely
        due to the changes of Alternative 4.
    o Under General Plan 2020 conditions, major queuing would take place on
        northbound D Street through the Gerstle Park neighborhood. Some diversion of
        traffic from D Street to C Street would take place because of this queuing on
        northbound D Street. Approximately 75 vehicles per hour are expected to divert
        to C Street from D Street under this alternative during the AM peak hour.
        However, the diverted traffic volume would not be high during the PM peak hour
        compared to the first two alternatives described in earlier sections.
    o The crosswalk on the east side of Second Street at its intersection with D Street
        would have to be removed.
    o Under the existing volume
        scenario during the PM
        peak      hour,        one     (1)
        additional         intersection
        would not satisfy the City's
        policy for LOS standard.
        Under the PM peak hour
        General Plan 2020 traffic
        volume scenario, one (1)
        additional         intersection      The conversion of D Street to two-way would
        would not satisfy the City's         introduce   additional     conflicting   turning
                                             movements at the intersection of Second/D
        policy.      No intersections


City of San Rafael                                               Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                Page 43
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        would be forced to failure during the AM peak hour under either existing or
        General Plan 2020 volumes.


Possible Mitigations
        Because Alternative 4 would generally perform well under existing conditions
and would perform poorly under General Plan 2020 conditions, mitigations in the long-
term would be most critical for this alternative, during the AM peak hour.
        Since D Street is currently a one-way street north of First Street, converting it to
two-way without any other changes will reduce the capacity of this segment by at least
50%. Therefore, in order to retain capacity on D Street, on-street parking must be
eliminated in order to provide additional traffic lanes. Approximately 10 total on-street
parking spaces will need to be removed on D Street between First and Second Streets.
However, this will not completely mitigate Alternative 4's impacts.                 Conflicting
movements would continue to exist and vehicle delay would remain, but removing
parking would reduce queue lengths on D Street and would make it easier to turn onto D
Street from side streets and driveways. The removal of parking on D Street between First
and Second Streets was assumed for this study.
        The driveways at the Arco gas station on the southwest corner of Second/D will
need to be modified if D Street is opened to two-way traffic. The gas station traffic
would also spillover to Second and D Streets. The proposed changes could be any or,
combination of the following--
             ·   One-way entry and exit
             ·   Turning restrictions on D Street
             ·   Closure of driveways on D Street
        One way to address the southbound queuing on D Street north of Second Street
may be to re-time the signals along this corridor, and potentially provide left turn signal
phasing. However, since all of the Downtown signals are part of one large coordinated
system, this would require changes to all signals in Downtown, which is a formidable
undertaking. Giving favor to D Street traffic would improve traffic flow on this street but
would result in higher delays at other locations in the Downtown system and for
conflicting traffic flows. Adding left turn arrows at Third/D and Second/D would be


City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 44
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


detrimental to intersection level of service, and would negatively impact Third and
Second Streets, which are major thoroughfares and are roadways of regional significance.
        In order to address side street delay in the Gerstle Park neighborhood that may
result from northbound queuing on D Street, `Keep Clear' pavement markings could be
painted at unsignalized intersections along the D Street corridor where queuing and
congestion is expected. This would help to facilitate turns to and from side streets, but it
would not address the difficulty of turning to and from private residential and commercial
driveways on D Street with solid D Street queuing.




City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 45
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Section 3.5: ALTERNATIVE 5
Convert D Street to two-way between First and Second Streets, and eliminate the First
Street link between D and C Streets.


Summary of AM Peak Hour Conditions
        Alternative 5 would perform poorly on D Street and on side streets in the Gerstle
Park neighborhood under existing conditions, and under General Plan 2020 conditions it
is expected to cause complete operational failure in the neighborhood.
        Additional westbound queuing at Third/C and Third/D would result under
existing conditions with Alternative 5, due to excess queuing on southbound D Street
north of Second Street. The average westbound queue at Third/C would increase by
approximately 140 feet (or about 6 car lengths) and the average westbound queue at
Third/D would grow by approximately 178 feet (or about 7 vehicles). Under General
Plan 2020 conditions with Alternative 5, the average westbound queue would increase
286 feet over base General Plan 2020 conditions at Third/D, and there would also be
significant queue increases at many interior Gerstle Park neighborhood intersections (like
C/San Rafael, D/Ross, and D/Taylor).
        Under the General Plan 2020 build-out scenario, northbound queues on D Street
through the Gerstle Park neighborhood would be severe. The average northbound queue
at D/Bayview would increase by 185 feet over base General Plan conditions, the average
northbound queue at First/D would increase by 143 feet, 365 feet at D/Frances, and 120
feet at D/Taylor. Clearly, there would be major backups on D Street under General Plan
2020 conditions with Alternative 5. Queuing would also be expected on the lower
portions of northbound C Street due to diversion (of about 80 vehicles per hour) at the
southern end of D Street, and the increase in average queue length at the northbound
approach to C/San Rafael would be 114 feet. Approximately 25 vehicles per hour would
divert from D Street to the west onto Marin Street.
        Under existing conditions with Alternative 5, none of the study intersections or
roadway segments would be forced to operate unacceptably by the City's LOS standards.
However, under General Plan 2020 conditions with Alternative 5, the intersection of
Third/A would be pushed to unacceptable levels of service. Although the City does not

City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 46
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


have a LOS policy for unsignalized intersections, the following unsignalized intersections
would operate poorly at LOS "F" under General Plan 2020 conditions:                       First/E,
D/Frances, E/Frances, Ross/Marin, and D/Ross. As this shows, Alternative 5 would
cause system failure throughout the Gerstle Park neighborhood due to D Street
operational issues, even on the more minor residential roadways. Unacceptable arterial
level of service (LOS "F") would be experienced on northbound D Street, northbound E
Street, southbound E Street, and westbound Third Street under General Plan 2020
conditions with Alternative 5. The loss of the First Street connection would result in an
inadequate amount of capacity on D Street and the neighborhood network under General
Plan 2020 volumes.
        Second Street would experience queues that exceed the block lengths available to
store the queues, although this would not be entirely attributed to the changes of
Alternative 5, as the queuing is currently experienced under existing lane conditions
during the AM peak hour.


Summary of PM Peak Hour Conditions
        The volume of eastbound vehicles on First Street would decrease by 700 vehicles
during the PM peak hour at the intersection of First Street and C Street. In fact, the
eastbound traffic volume on First Street would be almost negligible at its intersection
with C Street. As the volume of the major movement would become almost negligible,
the traffic operation at this intersection is expected to improve at this intersection.
        D Street would be the more popular route for northbound vehicles as it would
provide direct access up to Second Street. However, congestion, queuing and delay
would increase on northbound D Street as more northbound vehicles would use this
route. It would force some vehicles to seek alternate routes and these vehicles would
divert to other neighborhood streets. Major diversion would occur from northbound D
Street to northbound C Street. The vehicle volume on northbound C Street would
steadily increase from north of San Rafael Avenue as follows--




City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 47
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


              Intersections                  Additional Northbound Vehicles During the
                                                            PM Peak Hour
      C Street and Octavia Street                                  50
       C Street and Taylor Street                                  120
      C Street and Treanor Street                                  220
        C Street and First Street                                  220




The First Street link between C & D               Congestion in the northbound approach of
Streets would be closed. No right-turn            two-way D Street would increase. Drivers
would be allowed at First Street/D Street         traveling through intersections such as D
and eastbound traffic volume would be             Street/Antonette Avenue (pictured above)
almost negligible at First Street/C Street        would see queue formation ahead of them
                                                  and would divert to other neighborhood
                                                  streets.

        Some vehicles would seek other alternate routes. Such vehicles are expected to
use northbound B Street and northbound Marin Street. Vehicle volumes on these roads
are expected increase by 20 vehicles per hour during the PM peak hour.
        No major impact would be observed on northbound D Street up to First Street.
The right turning volume at the intersection of D Street and First Street would be
completely eliminated. However, northbound vehicle volume at the intersection of D
Street and Second Street would be 450 vehicles per hour during the PM peak hour. This
heavy volume would conflict with the southbound movement on D Street. The average
delay for each southbound vehicle on D Street would increase by 90 seconds. These
vehicles would need to wait several cycles before they could proceed through the

City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 48
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


intersection. The average length of the queue on southbound D Street would be 187 feet.
The queue would occupy the entire length of the block and would prohibit additional
vehicles from entering this block. Traffic operations at the intersection of Third Street
and D Street would be affected. The average queue length on westbound Third Street
would increase by more than 80 feet (equivalent to the length of 4 vehicles). Operations
of westbound Third Street would fail when the volume in the network increase.
Upstream intersections on Third Street as well as other nearby intersections would be
adversely affected.
        Vehicles exiting the driveways onto D Street would experience longer delays
because fewer gaps would be present in the two-way traffic stream on D Street. Accident
potential would also increase as lack of adequate gaps would force the driver to take
more chances to enter the mainstream traffic.
        It was determined that one additional lane would be required to accommodate the
northbound vehicles on D Street between First Street and Second Street. However, the
southbound left-turning lane would not be necessary and it could be converted to a
receiving lane. Hence fewer parking spaces would have to be removed compared to the
previous alternatives.         Turn pockets would have to be provided on D Street at its
intersections with First and Second Streets. Also, restriping of the existing lanes would
be required to align the receiving lanes with the incoming lanes and to accommodate the
turn pockets.
        The intersection of Third Street and A Street would be forced to operate below the
standard set by the City's policy for LOS by this alternative.
        The trend of the existing Average Daily Traffic (ADT) counts show that similar
traffic conditions would exist in the network during noon lunchtime peak hour and
afternoon school dismissal peak hour as well.          The conditions would progressively
worsen from midday to the PM peak hour. Traffic volume in the network may start
diminishing from 7:00 PM onward on a typical weekday. The benefit of the two-way D
Street would be more noticeable during nighttime from 7:00 PM till 7:00 AM effectively.
        Under the General Plan 2020 scenario, due to significant increase in the traffic
volume of the entire network system, all the above-mentioned conditions would worsen.
In general, as the traffic volume would increase, shifting of traffic would occur, volume


City of San Rafael                                               Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                Page 49
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


of conflicting movements would increase and vehicles would experience longer delays.
This alternative would force the following intersections to operate below standard set by
the City's policy for LOS--
             ·   Fourth Street and A Street
             ·   Fourth Street and B Street
The following arterials would fail in terms of operations--
             ·   Northbound C Street
             ·   Southbound B Street
             ·   Southbound E Street
             ·   Eastbound Second Street
             ·   Eastbound and westbound Fourth Street


Advantages
    o Alternative 5 would focus traffic on D Street and away from the northern end of C
        Street in the Gerstle Park neighborhood because of the loss of the First Street
        connection. Less traffic would be funneled through the intersection of First/C
        from the west, since the connection to D Street via First Street would be lost, and
        consequently, fewer conflicting volumes would result.
    o The conversion of D Street to two-way would provide more direct and convenient
        access to Downtown for D Street drivers and neighborhood residents.


Disadvantages
    o Operational problems at
        the D Street driveway of
        the Arco gas station are
        expected because of the
        proximity     of       the   exit
        driveway       to       Second
        Street. This will be the
        scenario        with         any
                                            Alternative 5 would cause the diversion of
        alternative that includes
                                            traffic through the neighborhood streets of
                                            Gerstle Park, like Antonette Avenue
City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 50
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        two-way traffic on D Street since the two-way configuration introduces
        conflicting movements with gas station traffic. It is anticipated that internal
        circulation at the gas station will be negatively affected.
    o Alternative 5 would cause solid queuing on northbound D Street (from Second
        Street to Bayview Street under existing volumes, and from Second Street south of
        Antonette Avenue under General Plan 2020 volumes).              This steady queuing
        would in turn cause significant queuing on side street approaches to D Street due
        to the fact that there would be very few gaps available for side street traffic to turn
        onto D Street. The same condition would occur from driveways onto D Street.
        Frances Street, Ross Street, Bayview Street and others would become congested
        with vehicles unable to turn onto D Street. Consequently, Marin Street would
        also experience backups. Under existing conditions, this scenario would occur
        during the height of the peak hour, but under General Plan 2020 conditions, the
        volumes of vehicles trying to use D Street are expected to cause cumulative
        operational breakdown throughout the AM peak hour and beyond.
    o There would be constant queuing of southbound D Street traffic between Second
        and Third Streets during the whole AM peak hour. This D Street queuing would
        cause increased queuing at the westbound approaches to both Third/C and
        Third/D, as mentioned above. The average delay for southbound vehicles on D
        Street at its intersection with Second Street would be about 90 seconds per vehicle
        during the PM peak hour.
    o Parking removal on D Street between Frances and Second Streets would be
        required, and alignment of the new traffic lanes would be difficult.
    o Heavy queuing on Second Street and on other east-west arterials is expected
        under Alternative 5, although this is not necessarily entirely due to the changes
        that would be involved in this alternative.
    o Diversion through the Gerstle Park neighborhood would be expected on both
        sides of D Street (to Marin Street and the southern end of C Street).
        Neighborhood streets such as C Street would have more congestion, delay and
        queuing due to traffic diversion.



City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 51
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


    o Under the existing volume scenario during the AM peak hour, no additional
        intersections would be forced to fail by the City's policy for LOS. An additional
        intersection would not satisfy the City's policy under the General Plan 2020
        traffic volume scenario during the AM peak hour. Under the existing volume
        scenario during the PM peak hour, one (1) additional intersection would not
        satisfy the City's policy for LOS standard over existing conditions. An additional
        two (2) intersections would not satisfy the City's policy under the General Plan
        2020 traffic volume scenario during the PM peak hour.
    o The crosswalk on the east side of Second Street at its intersection with D Street
        would have to be removed.


Possible Mitigations
        Because Alternative 5 would cause significant queuing on D Street under both
existing and General Plan 2020 conditions, mitigations would be necessary to allow this
alternative to operate acceptably. Mitigations would be particularly necessary under
General Plan 2020 conditions, when major system failure is expected to result throughout
the Gerstle Park neighborhood.
        Because D Street is currently a one-way street north of First Street, converting it
to two-way without any other changes will reduce the capacity of this segment by at least
50%.     Therefore, the only possible mitigation to retain capacity on D Street is to
eliminate on-street parking and provide additional traffic lanes. Approximately 10 total
on-street parking spaces will need to be removed on D Street between First and Second
Streets (counting spaces on both sides of the street and the loading zone). This will not
completely mitigate Alternative 5's impacts, as the conflicting movements would
continue to exist and vehicle delay would remain. However, removing parking would
reduce queue lengths on D Street and would allow for easier turns onto D Street from
side streets and driveways. The removal of parking on D Street between First and
Second Streets was assumed for the simulation analysis.
        The modifications to driveways at the Arco gas station on the southwest corner of
Second/D will be necessary if D Street is to be opened to two-way traffic. The obvious
action would be to close the station's driveway(s) to D Street, since it is located very


City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 52
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


close to the intersection of Second/D and there are expected to be very few opportunities
to turn out of the driveway at most times of the day. The gas station traffic would also
spillover to Second and D Streets. The proposed changes could be any or, combination
of the following--
             ·   One-way entry and exit
             ·   Turning restrictions on D Street
             ·   Closure of driveways on D Street
        A solution to the southbound queuing on D Street north of D Street may be to re-
time the signals along this corridor, and potentially provide left turn phasing. However,
since all of the Downtown signals are part of one coordinated system, this would require
changes to all signals in Downtown. Giving favor to D Street traffic would improve
traffic flow on this street but would likely mean higher delays at other locations in the
Downtown system or for conflicting traffic streams. Adding left turn arrows at Third/D
and Second/D would be detrimental to intersection level of service, and would negatively
impact Third and Second Streets, which are major thoroughfares and are roadways of
regional significance
        In order to address side street delay in the Gerstle Park neighborhood that may
result from northbound queuing on D Street, `Keep Clear' pavement markings may be
painted at unsignalized intersections along the D Street corridor. This would help to
facilitate turns to and from side streets, but it would not address the difficulty of turning
to and from driveways on D Street with solid D Street queuing.
        Neighborhood traffic calming would be recommended if Alternative 5 were
adopted.    Measures like speed humps, speed feedback signs (with radar) and other
measures should be considered to address the diverted traffic that would result from
severe D Street queuing.
        All of these mitigation measures may help to decrease the impacts of Alternative
5, but they would likely be unable to completely mitigate the impacts, since they are
expected to be so severe.




City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 53
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Section 3.6: ALTERNATIVE 6
Install traffic signals at the intersections of First/D and First/C, with no other changes
to the local network.


Summary of AM Peak Hour Conditions
        Alternative 6 would perform well with very few impacts to east-west arterials or
in the Gerstle Park neighborhood under both existing and General Plan 2020 scenarios.
The traffic signals would provide more efficient traffic management and they would be
coordinated with the Downtown system.
        The intersection of First/C would operate at LOS "B" under the signalized
scenario with existing and General Plan 2020 volumes, with approximately 20 seconds
increase in delay for drivers on the westbound and northbound approaches. This is
slightly worse in terms of operation than under the existing configuration without a traffic
signal, although LOS "B" operation is still very good operation.               Drivers at the
westbound approach to First/D would experience about 15 additional seconds of delay,
on average, with a traffic signal due to the timing of the signal phases and the fact that
westbound drivers must now wait for a green light to cross or turn left onto D Street
instead of just a gap in D Street traffic. However, the intersection of First/D would
operate at LOS "A" overall under both existing and General Plan 2020 volumes.
Alternative 6 would not cause any intersections or arterial segments in the Gerstle Park
neighborhood or adjacent areas to operate unacceptably, and would have very few
noticeable impacts to the surrounding roadway network.
        No significant queuing would result at either First/C or First/D under existing or
General Plan 2020 volumes with traffic signals. Also, no significant increases in queuing
(more than 75 feet in length) would result at any of the other intersections in the Gerstle
Park neighborhood or in the adjacent areas. Traffic would flow smoothly through the
Gerstle Park neighborhood without major delays.           The Arco gas station would not
experience negative impacts.




City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 54
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        A few parking spaces would be lost at First/D and First/C with the installation of
traffic signals. However, the loss of parking under this scenario would be much less than
under the two-way alternatives.


Summary of PM Peak Hour Conditions
        This alternative would manage the traffic more effectively in the neighborhood
since signal control is more efficient than stop control. Long queues are expected to form
at the northbound approach of D Street at its intersection with First Street. Occasionally,
the northbound queue on D Street would extend up to its intersection with Bayview
Street. However, these queues would not be static as these would dissipate in a timely
manner. The average delay for eastbound vehicles on First Street would increase by little
more than 10 seconds during the PM peak hour. The average queue length at the
eastbound approach of First Street at its intersection with C Street is expected to increase
by 156 feet, which is equivalent to the length of six vehicles. The average delay for such
vehicles is expected to increase marginally by 10 seconds compared to the existing
conditions. If the proposals of this alternative are implemented, the queues are expected
to dissipate due to better management of traffic at the two newly signalized intersections.




                       Occasionally, the northbound queue on D
                       Street at First Street/D Street would extend
                       up to D Street/Bayview Street during the
                       PM peak hour. However, queue formation
                       and dissipation would occur in a timely
                       manner due to better traffic management
                       by the signal control at First Street/D Street


City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 55
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study




        The intersection of Fourth Street and A Street would be forced to operate below
the standard set by the City's policy for LOS. In terms of arterial operations, the arterials
would not fail under existing volume condition.
        Operations at Frances Street would be slightly affected. The average queue
length on eastbound Frances Street at its intersection with D Street would increase by
approximately 140 feet (equivalent to the length of five-six vehicles). These vehicles
would experience additional 30 seconds delay on average.
        Similar traffic conditions would exist under the General Plan 2020 traffic
condition. No additional intersections would fail under this volume. However, the
following arterial failure would occur in terms of operations--
             ·   Southbound E Street
             ·   Eastbound Second Street
             ·   Westbound Fourth Street




City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 56
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Section 3.7: ALTERNATIVE 7
Install all-way stop controls at the intersections of First/D and First/C, with no other
changes to the local network.


Summary of AM Peak Hour Conditions
          Alternative 7 would perform well with very few impacts on east-west arterials or
in the Gerstle Park neighborhood under both existing and General Plan 2020 scenarios.
          The intersection of First/C would operate at LOS A with all-way stop controls
under existing and General Plan 2020 volumes, with no significant increases in average
queue lengths. Delay would increase by less than ten seconds at each approach to
First/C, if at all.
          The intersection of First/D would operate at LOS "B" overall under both existing
and General Plan 2020 volumes. However, the southbound approach would experience
an average of 140 feet of increased queuing under both existing and General Plan 2020
conditions. This is because the southbound movement is heavy and traffic comes in
platoons or waves all at once, due to the signal at Second/D. Vehicles at the through
movement at the southbound approach, which is now uncontrolled, would have to stop.
Occasionally the southbound queues at First/D may exceed the block length between
Second and First Streets, but this is not expected to be a regular occurrence. Even despite
this increased queuing at the southbound approach to First/D the overall intersection
operation (LOS "B") would be good.
          Alternative 7 would not cause any intersections or arterial segments in the Gerstle
Park neighborhood or adjacent areas to operate unacceptably, and would have very few
noticeable impacts to the surrounding roadway network, with the exception of occasional
long queues at the southbound approach to First/D. Also, no significant increases in
queuing (more than 75 feet in length) would result at any of the other intersections in the
Gerstle Park neighborhood or in the adjacent areas. The Arco gas station would not
experience negative impacts, except when there is significant southbound queuing on D
Street.
          No parking would be lost with Alternative 7.

City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 57
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study




Summary of PM Peak Hour Conditions
        Right-of-way of the vehicles would be assigned by installing all-way stop controls
at the two intersections. However, with increase in the PM peak hour volume, longer
delay may be experienced by vehicles traveling through these two intersections. The
reason is that the free flow of vehicles would be curtailed by the all-way stop controls.
Queues would form at the northbound approach of D Street at First Street and
occasionally it would extend beyond D Street/San Rafael Avenue when the traffic
volume increases in the network. As a result, the side street traffic would be affected.
For example, eastbound vehicles on Frances Street would not be discharged to D Street
because of lack of adequate gaps on D Street.
        As the motorists traveling on northbound D Street see the formation of queues
ahead of them, they would divert to neighborhood streets to find alternative routes. In
such cases, C Street, B Street and Marin Street would serve as alternative routes.
        Side street traffic and vehicles entering or exiting driveways on D Street would be
affected due to lack of adequate gaps to discharge traffic. Also, accident potential would
also increase as drivers would be forced to take chances to enter the traffic stream.
        Southbound traffic on D Street at First Street would arrive in platoons due to the
upstream traffic signal control at Second Street. These vehicles would have sufficient
time to clear the approach before the next platoon arrives at this intersection. At times,
the queue length would increase by 130 feet. In other words, additional 6 vehicles would
wait in each lane of this approach before clearing the intersection. Average wait time for
southbound vehicles would be very high compared to the wait time of the vehicles on
other approaches.
        Even when the volume in the network is very high, vehicles would be discharged
one by one from the intersection of First Street and D Street. Hence the outgoing vehicle
volume would be controlled effectively. The vehicles that would turn right on First
Street toward C Street would be metered. Hence there would not be continuous flow of
traffic as the existing condition.




City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 58
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        This alternative would force the intersection of Second Street and Third Street to
operate below standard set by the City's policy for LOS. In terms of arterial operations,
eastbound Second Street would fail under the existing volume scenario.
        Similar condition in the network would be expected for the General Plan 2020
traffic volume. The following intersections in addition to the ones mentioned earlier
would be forced to operate below standard set by the City's LOS policy--
             ·   Fourth Street and A Street
             ·   Fourth Street and B Street
In terms of arterial operations, the following arterials would fail--
             ·   Eastbound Second Street
             ·   Eastbound and westbound Fourth Street
             ·   Southbound B Street
             ·   Southbound E Street




City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 59
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Section 3.8: ALTERNATIVE 8
Convert D Street to two-way between First and Second Streets. Install all-way stop
controls at First/C and a traffic signal at First/D.


Summary of AM Peak Hour Conditions
         Alternative 8 is a variation of Alternative 4, with the change being the installation
of a traffic signal at First/D rather than all-way stop controls. Alternative 8 would
perform very well under both existing and General Plan 2020 conditions (whereas
Alternative 4 would fail in the Gerstle Park neighborhood under the General Plan
scenario due to northbound queuing on D Street through the neighborhood).                    The
difference between the two scenarios and their performance seems to be the increased
efficiency of traffic signal operation at First/D compared to all-way stop operation, which
lends itself to more queuing and delay. Additionally, the traffic signal at First/D would
provide more efficient operation in regard to the entire local network, as the signal at this
intersection would be coordinated with the entire Downtown system.
         The intersection of First/D would operate at LOS A under both existing and
General Plan 2020 conditions with traffic signal controls. First/C would operate at LOS
A under all-way stop controls. No significant queuing would be experienced at First/C or
First/D with the exception of approximately 10 minutes during the AM peak hour under
General Plan 2020 conditions when the northbound D Street queues would extend
between Frances Street and Ross Street. The northbound D Street queues during this
time frame would cause diversion of traffic from D Street to C Street, but the queues at
the northbound D Street approach to First/D are expected to exist only at the height of the
AM peak hour and are expected to dissipate within a few signal cycles. The southbound
queues at First/D would not be expected to exceed the block length between First and
Second     Streets    at   any   point   during   the   AM    peak    hour    under     General
Plan 2020 conditions.
         Alternative 8 would have similar impacts as Alternative 4 to on east-west arterials
and southbound D Street, with queuing on southbound D Street between Second and
Third Streets.



City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 60
                       Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Summary of PM Peak Hour Conditions
        Right-of-way of the vehicles would be assigned by the all-way stop control and
the signal control at these two intersections. In general, the traffic pattern would be
similar to that of Alternative 4.         However, traffic control would improve at the
intersection of First Street and D Street.
        The queue formation on eastbound First Street would be managed more
effectively as the traffic flow on this approach would be monitored by the signal at First
Street/D Street.
        Northbound D Street would be a much-used route for vehicles as it would provide
direct and convenient access up to Second Street. However, motorists stopped on red at
the northbound approach of D Street at the intersection of First Street and D Street may
decide to turn right on First Street instead of waiting for the signal to turn green. With
increase traffic volume in the network, more vehicles would divert to other neighborhood
streets using alternative routes to avoid congestion, delay and queuing. Also, some
motorists may find the signal at this intersection as an impedance to their movement and
avoid traveling through this intersection altogether. Such vehicles would increase the
diverted traffic volume.
        The following additional intersections would not satisfy the City's policy for
LOS standard--
        ·    Second Street and A Street
        ·    Third Street and A Street
        ·    Third Street and B Street
        ·    Third Street and E Street
        ·    Fifth Avenue and A Street


        Similar traffic patterns would be observed with the General Plan 2020 traffic
volume scenario. The abovementioned conditions would worsen with heavier future
traffic volume in the network.




City of San Rafael                                             Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 61
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Section 3.9: ALTERNATIVE A
Convert D Street to two-way between First Street and Second Street.                     Prohibit
northbound and southbound left turn movements at the intersection of First
Street/D Street.


Summary of AM Peak Hour Conditions
          This alternative would perform well under existing and General Plan 2020
conditions during the morning peak hour, without major backups Downtown or in the
Gerstle Park neighborhood. The most noticeable effect of Alternative A would be the
result of the northbound left turn restriction at First Street/D Street, as drivers would
instead use neighborhood streets west of D Street, like Frances Street, Ross Street,
Bayview Street, and San Rafael Avenue to head west, increasing the volume on
these roadways. Currently, 95 drivers turn left from northbound D Street to First Street,
and 58 vehicles turn left from southbound D Street to First Street during the AM peak
hour. The northbound left turn movement was counted over a 24-hour period, and 1,743
vehicles per day (ADT) were counted turning left from northbound D Street to First
Street.
          Under Alternative A, northbound and southbound left turns at First Street/D Street
would not be allowed. Approximately 9% of existing northbound D Street drivers who
would otherwise turn left onto First Street would now turn right onto First Street and
would make their way to the west through Downtown. The remaining 91% would
instead turn left off of D Street onto the other neighborhood streets south of First Street.
An obvious choice for northbound drivers wishing to turn left off of D Street would be to
turn left onto Frances Street, but this is not realistic due to its roadway characteristics.
While some drivers would turn left from D Street onto Frances Street, most would use
Ross Street, and San Rafael Avenue and Bayview Street to some extent. The prohibition
of northbound left turns to First Street from D Street would essentially have the effect of
spreading this traffic throughout the Gerstle Park neighborhood west of D Street.
Approximately 85 vehicles would now turn left off of D Street onto Ross Street or
Frances Street instead of at First Street/D Street under all scenarios evaluated with the
turn restriction in place. A minimal increase would be seen at the northbound left turn

City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 62
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


movements at D Street/Bayview Street and D Street/San Rafael Avenue. The most
noticeable effect of Alternative A would be an increase in traffic volumes on the
neighborhood streets west of D Street, as drivers coming from D Street to the south
would now use these roadways to head west.
        With Alternative A, the maximum northbound queue length at First Street/D Street
would decrease by 85 feet over baseline conditions without the turn restrictions, although
the maximum northbound queues at D Street/Frances Street and D Street/Ross Street
would increase by 93 feet and 117 feet respectively, as drivers would now turn left off of
D Street at these intersections. However, the average northbound queue lengths at these
locations would not change over baseline conditions. This implies that on occasion, one
vehicle waiting to turn left from northbound D Street onto either Ross or Frances Streets
would hold up vehicles behind it, since there are no dedicated left turn lanes. On
average, when no vehicle is waiting to turn left, there would be very little congestion at
these intersections, but the presence of a northbound left-turning vehicle may cause some
queuing because it temporarily may block northbound through traffic. This is less of the
case when vehicles turn left from northbound D Street at First Street, since there is an
existing left turn pocket.
        Alternative A would also include the prohibition of southbound left turns at First
Street/D Street. This would have a negligible effect on the local network (much less than
the prohibition of northbound left turns) due to the low southbound D Street left turn
volume at First Street. Only 58 vehicles per hour currently turn left from southbound D
Street onto First Street.
        Because Alternative A also involves the conversion of D Street to two-way
between First Street and Second Street, this alternative would have the same effects that
previous alternatives with two-way traffic would experience. For example, it is expected
that there would be increased queuing on southbound D Street between Second Street and
Third Street. At times, queues would extend along the entire length of this segment, in
turn causing congestion on the east-west arterials, particularly Third Street, because
drivers on these streets would be unable to turn onto D Street due to vehicle stacking.

City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 63
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


This condition would be present under existing conditions with Alternative A, but would
worsen under General Plan 2020 conditions. At Third Street/D Street under General Plan
2020 conditions with Alternative A, the average westbound queue would extend 290 feet
over base General Plan 2020 conditions. This would result from increased queuing and
spillover on the segment of southbound D Street between Second Street and Third Street
due to the introduction of conflicting northbound movements and additional delay with
the opening of D Street to two-way to Third Street. The average delay at Third Street/D
Street is expected to increase by 55 seconds on the westbound approach to this
intersection under General Plan 2020 conditions with this alternative. The most affected
lane will be the far left lane of Third Street, although the congestion in this lane will
create friction on the other lanes of Third Street, meaning that there will be more lane
changes, leading to congestion in other lanes of Third Street. Under General Plan 2020
conditions with Alternative A, westbound Third Street would operate at Level of Service
(LOS) "F" in terms of arterial operation.
        Under General Plan 2020 conditions, periodic increases in queuing would be
expected on northbound E Street at First Street and Second Street at times during the
peak hour. The average northbound queue length is not expected to increase at First
Street/E Street with Alternative A over base General Plan 2020 conditions, although the
maximum northbound queue length is anticipated to increase by 130 feet. This indicates
that at certain times, the northbound queue at this intersection may be noticeable, due to
the increase in vehicles at the northbound approach to First Street/E Street who
previously would use the westbound approach to First Street/E Street without the turn
restrictions. However, constant queuing would not persist at this approach.
        The route from D Street to First Street to C Street, which is the existing flow
pattern, would continue to be well-used under Alternative A, as the turn restriction would
not affect drivers on this path. This alternative would not have major impacts on current
traffic trends and patterns in the Gerstle Park neighborhood.




City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 64
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        Under existing conditions with Alternative A, no intersections or arterial segments
would be forced to operate unacceptably by City's Level of Service (LOS) policy
standards.     Under General Plan 2020 volumes, Alternative A would cause one
intersection, Third Street/A Street, to operate unacceptably by City's policy standards.
Two arterial segments (northbound E Street and westbound Third Street) would fail.


Summary of PM Peak Hour Conditions
        Currently, 222 vehicles per hour turn left from northbound D Street to First Street,
and 100 vehicles per hour turn left from southbound D Street to First Street during the
PM peak hour.
        First Street/D Street intersection would have lesser number of conflicting
movements as the left turns for northbound and southbound traffic would be eliminated
by imposing the turn restrictions. Elimination of the two left-turn movements would also
reduce the overall traffic volume at this intersection. D Street would provide more direct
and convenient access up to Second Street. More vehicles would prefer traveling north
on D Street due to this reason. However, as congestion on D Street would increase,
northbound vehicles would divert to alternate routes in the neighborhood to avoid the
congestion, and its resulting delay and queuing.          Traffic would shift much before
reaching First Street/D Street intersection. In addition, the northbound (and southbound)
left turning vehicles would seek other possible routes through the neighborhood and
redistribution of traffic would occur. Hence, the effects of the turn restrictions at First
Street/D Street intersection would be observed elsewhere in the neighborhood and in
the network.
        Residents would have limited access due to the turn restrictions. The effect of the
turn restrictions would be more pronounced for the residents of the houses located on
First Street between D Street and E Street. They would have to follow a roundabout
route to reach their destination.




City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 65
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        Redistribution of traffic in the neighborhood would mean more vehicles on other
streets in the neighborhood during the PM peak hour. However, not all such rerouted
motorists would be commuters. We anticipate that the rerouted traffic would be a mix of
commuters as well as residents of the neighborhood, who would search for alternative
routes inside the neighborhood for faster travel.
        Most likely, the northbound left-turning (to westbound First Street) vehicles on D
Street, would turn left on other neighborhood streets such as Frances Street, Ross Street,
Bayview Street and San Rafael Avenue to reach their destinations under this scenario. In
effect, it would increase the volumes on these streets as well as on northbound Marin
Street and E Street. On average, additional 20 vehicles per hour during the PM peak hour
would travel through Marin Street intersections. In addition, the northbound left turning
traffic would potentially create more back-ups and congestion on D Street as these
vehicles would have to wait for adequate gaps in the southbound through traffic stream
on D Street, which has only one lane in each direction.




Pictured above is the queuing on                    Restricting left turns at First Street/D
southbound D Street in Gerstle Park                 Street intersection would reduce the
neighborhood                                        number of conflicting movements


        Volume of southbound vehicles at Second Street/D Street and First Street/D
Street intersections would decrease by over 20 vehicles (low compared to the overall
volume at the intersection) per hour during the PM peak hour presumably due to the


City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 66
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


southbound left-turn restriction at First Street/D Street intersection.         These vehicles
would choose alternate routes of travel and would be dispersed through the east-west
arterials and other cross streets.
        Due to easier access through northbound D Street up to Second Street and
diversion through side streets, the eastbound traffic volume would decrease considerably
on First Street at First Street/C Street intersection. It would decrease by 217 vehicles per
hour during the PM peak hour.
        Diversions of northbound traffic from D Street to C Street would be significant.
Congestion and delay would increase at the intersections on C Street inside the
neighborhood. There would be steady increase in northbound vehicle volume starting
from north of San Rafael Avenue, Bayview Street, Taylor Street and other cross streets
during the PM peak hour as follows--
                                                   Additional Northbound Vehicles
              Intersections
                                                         (during PM Peak hour)
      C Street and Octavia Street                                   48
       C Street and Taylor Street                                  107
      C Street and Treanor Street                                  157
        C Street and First Street                                  163




 Diversions from northbound D Street to            Northbound C Street near San Rafael
 other neighborhood streets such as C              Avenue would carry more traffic as
 Street would start at San Rafael Avenue,          diversion through the neighborhood
 well ahead of the intersection of First           increases
 Street/D Street
City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 67
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        Majority of the diverted eastbound traffic would use B Street and Woodland
Avenue. Traffic volume on eastbound Woodland Avenue would increase by 40 vehicles
per hour during the PM peak hour.
        The northbound vehicles in the neighborhood, which are introduced through the D
Street/Antonette Street intersection, would decrease by 35 vehicles per hour during the
PM peak hour. This decreased traffic would prefer traveling through other routes and not
through the neighborhood.
        Vehicular operations at the First Street/D Street intersection would improve as
northbound and southbound left-turn movements are prohibited completely. The volume
on First Street link between D Street and E Street would decrease significantly and
pedestrian conflicts also reduces to some extent, due to the turn restrictions at First
Street/D Street intersection.
        The intersection of Second Street and D Street would now be a conflict point for
northbound right-turning and southbound left-turning traffic. During the PM peak hour,
166 vehicles would travel north at the intersection of Second Street and D Street. Due to
such high volume of oncoming northbound traffic, the average delay for each southbound
vehicle would increase by 40 seconds during the PM peak hour. As a consequence of
longer delay, the southbound queue would increase. The average southbound queue is
expected to increase by more than 160 feet, which is equivalent to an additional six
vehicles per lane. At times, this queue would occupy the entire length of the block. The
westbound traffic on Third Street that would be waiting to turn left on D Street would not
be able to do so. The far left lane on Third Street would back up about 90 feet on average
(equivalent to length of four vehicles) and add to the friction in the system. The delay for
westbound Third Street would increase by more than 10 seconds on average.
Congestion, delay and queuing may increase at the upstream intersections of Third Street
as well, which may negatively impact the arterial operations.
        The existing crosswalk of Second Street on the east side of D Street would have
to be removed to minimize the conflicts between pedestrians and vehicles.




City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 68
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study




Second Street/D Street (pictured above)            Southbound queues on D Street (pictured
would be a conflict point of northbound            above) would occupy the entire block,
and southbound traffic. Southbound left            preventing vehicle entry from westbound
turning traffic would have to find adequate        Third Street Operation of this major east-
gaps in the northbound through traffic             west arterial would be negatively impacted.
stream & would experience longer delay             Pictured above is the southbound queue on
and queue build-up                                 D Street viewed from Third Street


        Cumulative impact of the conditions described above would create negative
impacts on the traffic operations of the major east-west arterials such as Second Street,
Third Street and Fourth Street.        The intersections located in the vicinity would be
adversely affected. The following arterial would be forced to operate below the City's
Standard in terms of operations--
             ·   Westbound Third Street
        Side street traffic would be affected in the neighborhood during the PM peak
hour. For example, queues would form on eastbound Frances Street. The length of the
queue would increase with increasing traffic volume in the network. Accident potential
would increase as lack of adequate gaps would lead the driver to take more chances to
enter the mainstream traffic. Frances Street would be accessed by the northbound left-
turning traffic of D Street as well. However, due to narrow road width and the on-street
parking spaces being filled to the capacity, such vehicles would prefer turning left on
other side streets.




City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 69
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study




Queues on eastbound Frances Street                 Pictured above is Ross Street at D Street.
(pictured above) would exceed the length of        Side street traffic would be affected due to
the block with some overflow traffic on E          turn restrictions at First Street/D Street
Street                                             intersection and also due to heavy two-way
                                                   traffic on D Street


        Similarly, the vehicles exiting driveways onto D Street would experience longer
delays as fewer gaps would be present in the two-way traffic stream on D Street.
Accident potential may also increase in this case as well. Potentially more red zones
would be required to improve the motorists' line of sight to assist in decision-making.
        It was determined that one northbound traffic lane would be required to
accommodate the northbound through vehicles on D Street between First Street and
Second Street. Turn pockets would have to be provided on D Street at First Street/D
Street and Second Street/D Street intersections. Also, restriping of the existing lanes
would be necessary to align the receiving lanes with the incoming lanes and to
accommodate the turn pockets. This would be a challenging task and would require
removal of all on-street parking spaces from both sides of D Street for the segment
between Frances Street and Second Street.
        This alternative would not cause any additional operational problems at the
driveway of the Arco gas station on D Street.
        Due to increase in congestion and delay in the network, several intersections in
the network would be severely affected. The following intersections would be forced by



City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 70
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


this alternative to operate below the City's policy for LOS standard under
existing volumes--
             ·   Third Street and A Street
             ·   Fourth Street and A Street
        The trend of the existing Average Daily Traffic (ADT) counts show that similar
traffic conditions would exist in the network during the noon lunchtime peak hour and the
afternoon school dismissal peak hour as well.          The conditions would progressively
worsen from midday to the PM peak hour. Traffic volume in the network may start
diminishing from 7:00 PM onward on a typical weekday. The benefit of the two-way D
Street would be more noticeable during nighttime till early morning; more specifically,
from 7:00 PM till 7:00 AM effectively.
        Neighborhood traffic calming measures may have to be installed for the safety of
the road users in future if applicable warrants (such as traffic volume, accident history,
and 85 percentile speed criteria for roadway segments) are satisfied due to
diverted volumes. The program currently is not funded.
        Under the General Plan 2020 scenario, due to increased traffic volume in the
network, all the above-mentioned conditions would worsen. In general, as the traffic
volume would increase, shifting of traffic would occur, volume of conflicting movements
would increase, and vehicles would experience longer delays. Fourth Street/A Street
intersection would be forced to operate below the City's LOS Standard. Also, the
following arterials would be forced to operate below the City's standard in terms
of operations--
             ·   Eastbound Second Street
             ·   Eastbound Fourth Street
             ·   Westbound Fourth Street
As the traffic volume reaches capacity, the software reaches its limitation. This condition
is reflected as higher delays, minimal movements on side streets and more failures in the
entire network. This condition is indicative of very high congestion, delays and restricted
movements in the actual network.




City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 71
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Advantages
    o The opening of D Street to two-way would provide more convenient and direct
        access to Second Street for northbound D Street drivers.
    o The northbound and southbound left turn restrictions at First Street/D Street
        intersection would eliminate several conflicting movements, and would cause the
        intersection to operate with fewer possible conflicts.
    o Since vehicles would no longer be allowed to turn left on First Street from
        northbound D Street, the volumes on First Street west of D Street would decrease.
        This is desirable, since this roadway is narrow and restricted.
    o The prohibition on southbound left turn movement at First Street/D Street
        intersection would cause very few impacts and have no significant consequences
        due to the low existing volumes on this movement.
    o No significant queuing is expected at the northbound approach to Second Street/D
        Street intersection, and consequently D Street through the Gerstle Park
        neighborhood, under either existing or General Plan 2020 conditions during the
        AM peak hour.
    o During the AM peak hour, there are not expected to be major queuing or delay
        impacts to the local streets within the Gerstle Park neighborhood under either
        existing or General Plan 2020 conditions with Alternative A, except for some
        occasional      queuing    at   the   northbound     approach      to    First    Street/E
        Street intersection.
    o Minimal diversion to C Street from D Street is expected during the AM peak
        hour. Under existing and General Plan 2020 volumes during the AM peak, fewer
        than 20 vehicles per hour are expected to divert to C Street under Alternative A.
        Instead, more traffic diverting from D Street is expected to use B Street via the
        southern east-west roadways in the Gerstle Park neighborhood such as Bayview
        Street, Octavia Street, and Taylor Street.
    o During both peak hours, the volume of eastbound vehicles on First Street at First
        Street/C Street intersection would decrease.


City of San Rafael                                               Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                Page 72
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Disadvantages
    o The prohibition of northbound left turns at First Street/D Street would cause
        drivers to turn left onto other neighborhood streets (like Frances Street, Ross
        Street, Bayview Street and San Rafael Avenue). These local roadways, along
        with others like Marin Street which would carry traffic to the west of Downtown,
        would experience increased volumes.
    o During the PM peak hour, traffic would divert off of D Street when there is
        congestion on this roadway and would instead use the neighborhood streets.
        Therefore, congestion and delay on the neighborhood intersections would
        increase. For example, volume of northbound vehicles on C Street would steadily
        increase through the neighborhood intersections.
    o The diverted traffic mentioned in the bullet points above may potentially cause
        speeding problems on the residential Gerstle Park neighborhood streets, and
        traffic calming may be necessary to mitigate these effects.
    o Parking would be lost on both sides of D Street between Frances Street and
        Second Street, as changes to lane geometry would need to be made on D Street.
        Aligning the reconfigured traffic lanes would be challenging.
    o The existing crosswalk on the east side of Second Street at its intersection with D
        Street would have to be removed.
    o Back-ups would increase on northbound D Street due to more vehicles attempting
        to negotiate left turns at cross streets. The effect would be more pronounced
        under this scenario due to the turn restrictions at First Street/D Street intersection.
    o Vehicles exiting the driveways and side streets onto D Street would experience
        longer delays.
    o Residents of the houses located on First Street between D Street and E Street
        would have difficult access through northbound D Street due to the northbound
        left turn restriction at First Street/D Street intersection.
    o Alternative A would cause queuing of southbound D Street traffic between
        Second Street and Third Street at most points during the AM peak hour. These
        queues would in turn spill over to Third Street.


City of San Rafael                                                Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                 Page 73
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


    o Heavy queuing on Second, Third and Fourth Streets is expected under both
        existing and General Plan 2020 conditions during both peak hours (more frequent
        toward the end of the peak hours), but this would not be entirely due to the
        changes of Alternative A.
    o During the AM peak hour, no intersections would be forced to operate below
        (fail) according to the City's policy for LOS standards under existing volumes.
        One intersection would be forced to fail under the General Plan 2020
        volume scenario.
    o During the PM peak hour, two intersections and one arterial would be forced to
        fail under existing volumes. Three arterials and one intersection would be forced
        to fail under the General Plan 2020 volume scenario.
    o Operational problems at the D Street driveway of the Arco gas station at
        southwest corner of Second Street/D Street are expected, due to the proximity of
        the exit driveway to Second Street.


Possible Mitigations
        Under AM peak hour conditions, traffic is expected to flow smoothly under
Alternative A. Under the PM peak hour volumes, the major impact of this alternative is
expected on C Street and D Street as well as on the major east-west arterials.
        It was observed during the field visits to the intersection of First Street and C
Street that eastbound vehicles on First Street often do not stay in their designated lane as
they approach C Street (i.e. they cut the turn short). In order to maintain the directional
traffic in its designated lanes, raised median on the west leg of First Street at its
intersection with C Street may be constructed. This median may extend up to the
intersection with D Street.
        The modifications to driveways at the Arco gas station on the southwest corner of
Second Street/D Street will be necessary if D Street is to be opened to two-way traffic,
since there are expected to be very few opportunities to turn out of the gas station to D
Street at most times of the day. Changes may negatively affect the business of this gas
station due to further limited on-site circulation. The gas station traffic would also



City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 74
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


spillover to Second Street and D Street. The proposed changes could be any or, a
combination of the following--
             ·   One-way entry and exit
             ·   Turning restrictions on D Street
             ·   Closure of driveways on D Street
        One solution to the southbound queuing on D Street north of Second Street may
be to re-time the signals along this corridor, and potentially provide left turn phasing.
The conflicting movement of northbound and southbound left-turning traffic at the
intersection of Second Street and D Street may be separated by assigning right-of-way to
the vehicles. Adding a separate left-turn phase to the existing signal would satisfy this
requirement. However, since all of the Downtown signals are part of one coordinated
system, this would require changes to all signals in Downtown. Giving favor to D Street
traffic would improve traffic flow on this street but would likely mean higher delays at
other locations in the Downtown system or for conflicting traffic streams. Adding left
turn arrows at Third Street/D Street and Second Street/D Street would be detrimental to
intersection level of service, and would negatively impact Third and Second Street
arterials, which are major thoroughfares and are roadways of regional significance.
        Because D Street is currently a one-way street north of First Street, converting it
to two-way without any other changes will reduce the capacity of this segment by at least
fifty percent. Therefore, the only possible mitigation to retain capacity on D Street is to
eliminate on-street parking and provide additional traffic lanes. Parking would need to be
removed on D Street between Frances Street and Second Street.                  This would not
completely mitigate Alternative A's impacts, as the conflicting movements would
continue to exist and vehicle delay would remain. However, removing parking would
help to reduce queue lengths on D Street and would allow for easier turns onto D Street
from side streets and driveways. The removal of parking on D Street was assumed for
the analysis.




City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 75
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Section 3.10: ALTERNATIVE B
Convert D Street to two-way between First Street and Second Street.                     Prohibit
northbound left turn movement and allow southbound left turn movement at the First
Street/D Street intersection.


Summary of AM Peak Hour Conditions
        This alternative would perform well under existing and General Plan 2020
conditions during the morning peak hour, without major backups Downtown or in the
Gerstle Park neighborhood. The most noticeable effect of Alternative B would be the
result of the northbound left turn restriction at First Street/D Street, as drivers would
instead use neighborhood streets west of D Street, like Frances Street, Ross Street,
Bayview Street, and San Rafael Avenue to head west, increasing the volume on
these roadways. Currently, 58 vehicles turn left from southbound D Street to First Street
during the AM peak hour. The northbound left turn movement was counted over a 24-
hour period, and 1,743 vehicles per day (ADT) were counted turning left from
northbound D Street to First Street.
        Under Alternative B, northbound left turns at First Street/D Street would not be
allowed. Approximately 9% of northbound D Street drivers who would otherwise turn
left onto First Street would now turn right onto First Street and would make their way to
the west through Downtown. The remaining 91% would instead turn left off of D Street
onto the other neighborhood streets south of First Street.           An obvious choice for
northbound drivers wishing to turn left off of D Street would be to turn left onto Frances
Street, but this is not realistic due to its roadway characteristics. While some drivers
would turn left from D Street onto Frances Street, most would use Ross Street (and San
Rafael Avenue and Bayview Street to some extent). The prohibition of northbound left
turns to First Street from D Street would essentially have the effect of spreading this
traffic throughout the Gerstle Park neighborhood west of D Street. Approximately 85
vehicles would now turn left off of D Street onto Ross Street or Frances Street instead of
at First Street/D Street under all scenarios evaluated with the turn restriction in place. A
minimal increase would be seen at the northbound left turn movements at D
Street/Bayview Street and D Street/San Rafael Avenue. The most noticeable effect of

City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 76
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Alternative B would be an increase in traffic volumes on the neighborhood streets west of
D Street, as drivers coming from D Street to the south would now use these roadways to
head west. On occasion, one vehicle waiting to turn left from northbound D Street onto
either Ross Street or Frances Street would hold up vehicles behind it, since there are no
dedicated left turn lanes. On average, when no vehicle is waiting to turn left, there would
be very little congestion at these intersections, but the presence of a northbound left-
turning vehicle may cause some queuing because it temporarily may block northbound
through traffic. This is less of the case when vehicles turn left from northbound D Street
at First Street, since there is an existing left turn pocket.
        Because Alternative B also involves the conversion of D Street to two-way
between First Street and Second Street, this alternative would have the same effects that
previous alternatives with two-way traffic would experience. For example, it is expected
that there would be increased queuing on southbound D Street between Second Street and
Third Street. At times, queues would extend along the entire length of this segment, in
turn causing congestion on the east-west arterials, particularly Third Street, because
drivers on these streets would be unable to turn onto D Street due to vehicle stacking.
This condition would be present under existing conditions with Alternative B, but would
worsen under General Plan 2020 conditions. At Third Street/D Street under General Plan
2020 conditions with Alternative B, the average westbound queue would extend 269 feet
over base General Plan 2020 conditions. This would result from increased queuing and
spillover on the segment of southbound D Street between Second Street and Third Street
due to the introduction of conflicting northbound movements and additional delay with
the opening of D Street to two-way to Third Street. The average delay at Third Street/D
Street is expected to increase by 40 seconds on the westbound approach to this
intersection under General Plan 2020 conditions with this alternative. The most affected
lane will be the far left lane of Third Street, although the congestion in this lane will
create friction on the other lanes of Third Street, meaning that there will be more lane
changes, leading to congestion in other lanes of Third Street.
        Under General Plan 2020 conditions, periodic increases in queuing would be
expected on northbound E Street at First Street and Second Street at times during the
peak hour. The average northbound queue length is not expected to increase at First


City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 77
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Street/E Street with Alternative B over base General Plan 2020 conditions, although the
maximum northbound queue length is anticipated to increase by 110 feet. This indicates
that at certain times, the northbound queue at this intersection may be noticeable, due to
the increase in vehicles at the northbound approach to First Street/E Street who
previously would use the westbound approach to First Street/E Street without the turn
restrictions. However, constant queuing would not persist at this approach. This problem
would be partly exacerbated by the fact that the block of Second Street would become
congested that they may impede drivers from E Street.
        The route from D Street to First Street to C Street, which is the existing flow
pattern, would continue to be well-used under Alternative B, as the turn restriction would
not affect drivers on this path. This alternative would not have major impacts on current
traffic trends and patterns in the Gerstle Park neighborhood.
        Under existing conditions with Alternative B, no intersections would be forced to
operate unacceptably by the City's Level of Service (LOS) policy standards. Under
existing conditions, two arterial segments, westbound Third Street and northbound A
Street would be forced to operate unacceptably by Alternative B. Under General Plan
2020 volumes, Alternative B would not force any intersections or arterial segments to
operate unacceptably by City's policy standards.


Summary of PM Peak Hour Conditions
        Currently, 100 vehicles per hour turn left from southbound D Street to First Street
during the PM peak hour.
        First Street/D Street intersection would have lesser number of conflicting
movements since the left-turn movement for northbound traffic would be eliminated by
imposing the turn restriction. Elimination of the left turn movement would reduce the
overall volume at this intersection. However, the northbound left turning vehicles would
seek other possible routes through the neighborhood and redistribution of traffic would
occur. Hence, the effects of the turn restriction at First Street/D Street intersection would
not be contained in this one location.        Most likely, the effects would be observed
elsewhere in the neighborhood as well. Also, residents of the houses located on First
Street between D Street and E Street would have difficult access through northbound D


City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 78
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Street due to the turn restriction. They would have to follow a roundabout route to reach
their destination.
        Redistribution of the northbound traffic in the neighborhood would mean more
vehicles on other streets in the neighborhood during the PM peak hour. However, not all
such rerouted motorists would be commuters. We anticipate that the rerouted traffic
would be a mix of commuters as well as residents of the neighborhood, who would
search for alternative routes inside the neighborhood for faster travel.
        No major change is anticipated for future traffic volume scenarios due to allowing
the southbound left-turn movement at First Street/D Street because the existing volume
on this movement is not significant.
        D Street would provide more direct and convenient access up to Second Street.
For this reason, more vehicles would prefer traveling north on D Street. However, as
congestion on D Street would increase, northbound vehicles would divert to alternate
routes in the neighborhood to avoid the congestion, and the resulting delay and queuing.
Shifting of traffic would occur much before the intersection of First Street/D Street.
        Due to easier access through northbound D Street up to Second Street and
diversion through side streets, the eastbound traffic would decrease considerably on First
Street at First Street/C Street intersection. It would decrease by 220 vehicles per hour
during the PM peak hour.
        Diversions of northbound traffic from D Street to C Street would be significant.
Congestion and delay would increase at the intersections on C Street inside the
neighborhood. There would be steady increase in northbound vehicle volume starting
from north of San Rafael Avenue, Bayview Street, Taylor Street and other cross streets
during the PM peak hour as follows--


                                                   Additional Northbound Vehicles
              Intersections
                                                         (during PM Peak hour)
      C Street and Octavia Street                                   48
       C Street and Taylor Street                                  109
      C Street and Treanor Street                                  162
        C Street and First Street                                  169


City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 79
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        Another major diversion would be that of the northbound left-turning (to
westbound First Street) vehicles on D Street. These vehicles would now turn left on
other neighborhood streets such as Frances Street, Ross Street, Bayview Street and San
Rafael Avenue to reach their destinations under this scenario. In effect, it would increase
the volumes on these streets as well as on northbound Marin Street and E Street. In
addition, the northbound left-turning vehicles would potentially create more back-ups and
congestion on D Street as these vehicles would have to wait for adequate gaps in the
southbound through traffic stream on D Street, which has only one lane in each direction.
On average, additional 20 vehicles would travel northbound on Marin Street intersections
during the PM peak hour.
        Majority of the diverted eastbound traffic would use B Street and Woodland
Avenue. Traffic volume on eastbound Woodland Avenue would increase by 40 vehicles
per hour during the PM peak hour.
        The northbound vehicles in the neighborhood, which are introduced through the D
Street/Antonette Street intersection, would decrease by 35 vehicles per hour during the
PM peak hour. This decreased traffic would prefer traveling through other routes and not
through the neighborhood.
        Operations at the First Street/D Street intersection would improve as northbound
left-turn movements are prohibited completely. As left-turn movement is not allowed
from northbound D Street on to westbound First Street, the volume on First Street link
between D Street and E Street would decrease significantly.
        The intersection of Second Street and D Street would now be a conflict point for
northbound right-turning and southbound left-turning traffic. During the PM peak hour,
176 vehicles would travel north at the intersection of Second Street and D Street. Due to
such high volume of oncoming northbound traffic, the average delay for each southbound
vehicle would increase by more than 30 seconds during the PM peak hour.                     As a
consequence of longer delay, the southbound queue would increase.                  The average
southbound queue is expected to increase by more than 145 feet, which is equivalent to
an additional six vehicles per lane. This queue would occupy the entire length of the
block. The westbound traffic on Third Street that would be waiting to turn left on D

City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 80
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Street would not be able to do so. This far left lane on Third Street would back up about
80 feet on average (equivalent to length of three vehicles) and add to the friction in the
system. Congestion, delay and queuing may increase at the upstream intersections of
Third Street as well, which may negatively impact the arterial operations.
        The existing crosswalk of Second Street on the east side of D Street would have
to be removed to minimize the conflicts between pedestrians and vehicles.
        Cumulative impact of the conditions described above would create negative
impact on the traffic operations of the major east-west arterials such as Second Street,
Third Street and Fourth Street.        The intersections located in the vicinity would be
adversely affected. The following arterials would be forced to operate below the City's
standard in terms of operations--
             ·   Westbound Third Street
             ·   Westbound Fourth Street
        Side street traffic would be affected in the neighborhood during the PM peak
hour. For example, queues would form on eastbound Frances Street. The length of the
queue would increase with increasing traffic volume in the network. Accident potential
would increase as lack of adequate gaps would lead the driver to take more chances to
enter the mainstream traffic. Frances Street would be accessed by the northbound left-
turning traffic of D Street as well. However, due to narrow road width and the on-street
parking spaces being filled to the capacity, such vehicles would prefer turning left on
other side streets.
        Similarly, the vehicles exiting driveways onto D Street would experience longer
delays as fewer gaps would be present in the two-way traffic stream on D Street.
Accident potential may also increase in this case as well. Potentially more red zones
would be required to improve the motorists' line of sight to assist in decision-making.
        It was determined that one northbound traffic lane would be required to
accommodate the northbound through vehicles on D Street between First Street and
Second Street. Turn pockets would have to be provided on D Street at First Street/D
Street and Second Street/D Street intersections. Also, restriping of the existing lanes
would be necessary to align the receiving lanes with the incoming lanes and to
accommodate the turn pockets. This would be a challenging task and would require



City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 81
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


removal of all on-street parking spaces from both sides of D Street for the segment
between Frances Street and Second Street.
        This alternative would not cause any major additional operational problems at the
driveway of the Arco gas station on D Street.
        Due to increase in congestion and delay in the network, several intersections in
the network would be severely affected. The following intersections would be forced by
this alternative to operate below the City's policy for LOS standard under
existing volumes--
             ·   Third Street and A Street
             ·   Fourth Street and A Street
        The trend of the existing Average Daily Traffic (ADT) counts show that similar
traffic conditions would exist in the network during the noon lunchtime peak hour and the
afternoon school dismissal peak hour as well.          The conditions would progressively
worsen from midday to the PM peak hour. Traffic volume in the network may start
diminishing from 7:00 PM onward on a typical weekday. The benefit of the two-way D
Street would be more noticeable during nighttime till early morning; more specifically,
from 7:00 PM till 7:00 AM effectively.
        Neighborhood traffic calming measures may have to be installed for the safety of
the road users in future if applicable warrants (such as traffic volume, accident history,
and 85 percentile speed criteria for roadway segments) are satisfied due to
diverted volumes. The program currently is not funded.
        Under the General Plan 2020 scenario, due to increased traffic volume in the
network, all the above-mentioned conditions would worsen. In general, as the traffic
volume would increase, shifting of traffic would occur, volume of conflicting movements
would increase, and vehicles would experience longer delays.                    The following
intersections would be forced to operate below the City's policy--
             ·   Fourth Street and A Street (LOS "F")
             ·   Fourth Street and B Street (LOS "F")
The following arterial would also be forced to operate below the City's standard in terms
of operations--
             ·   Eastbound Second Street

City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 82
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


             ·   Westbound Fourth Street
As the traffic volume reaches capacity, the software reaches its limitation. This condition
is reflected as higher delays, minimal movements on side streets and more failures in the
entire network. This condition is indicative of very high congestion, delays and restricted
movements in the actual network.


Advantages
    o The opening of D Street to two-way would provide more convenient and direct
        access to Second Street for northbound D Street drivers.
    o The restriction of northbound left turns at First Street/D Street would eliminate
        several conflicting movements, and would cause the intersection to operate with
        fewer possible conflicts.
    o Since vehicles would no longer be allowed to turn left onto First Street from
        northbound D Street, the volumes on First Street west of D Street would decrease.
        This is desirable, since this roadway is narrow and restricted.
    o No significant queuing is expected at the northbound approach to Second Street/D
        Street, and consequently D Street through the Gerstle Park neighborhood, under
        either existing or General Plan 2020 conditions during the AM peak hour.
    o During the AM peak hour, there are not expected to be major queuing or delay
        impacts to the local streets within the Gerstle Park neighborhood under either
        existing or General Plan 2020 conditions with Alternative B, except for some
        occasional queuing at the northbound approach to First Street/E Street.
    o Minimal diversion to C Street from D Street is expected during the AM peak
        hour. Under existing and General Plan 2020 volumes during the AM peak, fewer
        than 20 vehicles per hour are expected to divert to C Street under Alternative B.
        Instead, more traffic diverting from D Street is expected to use B Street via the
        southern east-west roadways in the Gerstle Park neighborhood such as Bayview
        Street, Octavia Street, and Taylor Street.
    o During both peak hours, the volume of eastbound vehicles on First Street at First
        Street/C Street intersection would decrease.



City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 83
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Disadvantages
    o The prohibition of northbound left turn movement at First Street/D Street
        intersection would cause drivers to turn left onto other neighborhood streets (like
        Frances Street, Ross Street, Bayview Street and San Rafael Avenue). These local
        roadways, along with others like Marin Street which would carry traffic to the
        west of Downtown, would experience increased volumes.
    o During the PM peak hour, traffic would divert off of D Street when there is
        congestion on this roadway and would instead use the neighborhood streets.
        Congestion and delay at neighborhood intersections would increase.                  Traffic
        volume of northbound vehicles on C Street would steadily increase through the
        neighborhood intersections.
    o The diverted traffic mentioned in the bullet points above may potentially cause
        speeding problems on the residential Gerstle Park neighborhood streets, and
        traffic calming may be necessary to mitigate these effects.
    o Vehicles exiting driveways and side streets onto D Street would experience longer
        delays than existing condition.
    o Parking would be lost on D Street between Frances Street and Second Street, as
        changes to lane geometry would be required on D Street.                     Aligning the
        reconfigured traffic lanes would be challenging.
    o The existing crosswalk on the east side of Second Street at its intersection with D
        Street would have to be removed.
    o Back-ups would increase on northbound D Street due to more vehicles attempting
        to negotiate left turns at cross streets. The effect would be more pronounced
        under this scenario due to turn restrictions at First Street/D Street intersection.
    o Residents of the houses located on First Street between D Street and E Street
        would have difficult access through northbound D Street due to the northbound
        left turn restriction at First Street/D Street intersection.
    o Alternative B would cause queuing of southbound D Street traffic between
        Second Street and Third Street at most points during the AM peak hour. These
        queues would in turn spill over to Third Street.



City of San Rafael                                                Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                 Page 84
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


    o Heavy queuing on Second, Third and Fourth Streets is expected under both
        existing and General Plan 2020 conditions during both peak hours, but this would
        not be entirely due to the changes of Alternative B.
    o During the AM peak hour, no intersections would be forced to fail according to
        the City's policy for LOS standards under existing or General Plan 2020 volumes.
    o During the PM peak hour, two intersections and two arterials would be forced to
        fail under existing volumes. Again, two intersections and two arterials would be
        forced to fail under the General Plan 2020 volume scenario.
    o Operational problems at the D Street driveway of the Arco gas station at
        southwest corner of Second Street/D Street are expected, due to the proximity of
        the exit driveway to Second Street.


Possible Mitigations
        Under AM peak hour conditions, traffic is expected to flow smoothly under
Alternative B. Under the PM peak hour volumes, the major impact of this alternative is
expected on C Street and D Street as well as on the major east-west arterials.
        It was observed during the field visits to the intersection of First Street and C
Street that eastbound vehicles on First Street often do not stay in their designated lane as
they approach C Street (i.e. they cut the turn short). In order to maintain the directional
traffic in its designated lanes, raised median on the west leg of First Street at its
intersection with C Street may be constructed. This median may extend up to the
intersection with D Street.
        The modifications to driveways at the Arco gas station on the southwest corner of
Second Street/D Street will be necessary if D Street is to be opened to two-way traffic,
since there are expected to be very few opportunities to turn out of the gas station to D
Street at most times of the day. Changes may negatively affect the business of this gas
station due to further limited on-site circulation. The gas station traffic would also
spillover to Second Street and D Street. The proposed changes could be any or, a
combination of the following--
             ·   One-way entry and exit

City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 85
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


             ·   Turning restrictions on D Street
             ·   Closure of driveways on D Street
        One solution to the southbound queuing on D Street north of Second Street may
be to re-time the signals along this corridor, and potentially provide left turn phasing.
The conflicting movement of northbound and southbound left-turning traffic at the
intersection of Second Street and D Street may be separated by assigning right-of-way to
the vehicles. Adding a separate left-turn phase to the existing signal would satisfy this
requirement. However, since all of the Downtown signals are part of one coordinated
system, this would require changes to all signals in Downtown. Giving favor to D Street
traffic would improve traffic flow on this street but would likely mean higher delays at
other locations in the Downtown system or for conflicting traffic streams. Adding left
turn arrows at Third Street/D Street and Second Street/D Street would be detrimental to
intersection level of service, and would negatively impact Third and Second Street
arterials, which are major thoroughfares and are roadways of regional significance.
        Because D Street is currently a one-way street north of First Street, converting it
to two-way without any other changes will reduce the capacity of this segment by at least
fifty percent. Therefore, the only possible mitigation to retain capacity on D Street is to
eliminate on-street parking and provide additional traffic lanes. Parking would need to be
removed on D Street between Frances Street and Second Street.                  This would not
completely mitigate Alternative B's impacts, as the conflicting movements would
continue to exist and vehicle delay would remain. However, removing parking would
help to reduce queue lengths on D Street and would allow for easier turns onto D Street
from side streets and driveways. The removal of parking on D Street was assumed for
the analysis.




City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 86
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Section 3.11: ALTERNATIVE C
Convert D Street to two-way between First Street and Second Street.                      Prohibit
northbound and southbound left turn movements at the intersection of First Street/D
Street. Install all-way stop control at First Street/C Street.


Summary of AM Peak Hour Conditions
          This scenario would perform well under existing conditions during the AM peak
hour, but would cause more impacts on D Street under General Plan 2020 conditions. In
the long-term, significant northbound queuing is expected on D Street as a result of
Alternative C. Currently, 95 drivers turn left from northbound D Street to First Street,
and 58 vehicles turn left from southbound D Street to First Street during the AM peak
hour. The northbound left turn movement was counted over a 24-hour period, and 1,743
vehicles per day (ADT) were counted turning left from northbound D Street to First
Street.
          Under Alternative C, northbound left turns at First Street/D Street would not be
allowed. Approximately 9% of northbound D Street drivers who would otherwise turn
left onto First Street would now turn right onto First Street and would make their way to
the west through Downtown. The remaining 91% would instead turn left off of D Street
onto the other neighborhood streets south of First Street.            An obvious choice for
northbound drivers wishing to turn left off of D Street would be to turn left onto Frances
Street, but this is not realistic due to its roadway characteristics. While some drivers
would turn left from D Street onto Frances Street, most would use Ross Street (and San
Rafael Avenue and Bayview Street to some extent). The prohibition of northbound left
turns to First Street from D Street would essentially have the effect of spreading this
traffic throughout the Gerstle Park neighborhood west of D Street. Approximately 85
vehicles would now turn left off of D Street onto Ross Street or Frances Street instead of
at First Street/D Street under all scenarios evaluated with the turn restriction in place. A
minimal increase would be seen at the northbound left turn movements at D
Street/Bayview Street and D Street/San Rafael Avenue. The most noticeable effect of
Alternative C would be an increase in traffic volumes on the neighborhood streets west of
D Street, as drivers coming from D Street to the south would now use these roadways to
head west. On occasion, one vehicle waiting to turn left from northbound D Street onto

City of San Rafael                                               Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                Page 87
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


either Ross Street or Frances Street would hold up vehicles behind it, since there are no
dedicated left turn lanes. This is less of the case when vehicles turn left from northbound
D Street at First Street, since there is an existing left turn pocket.
        Alternative C would also include the prohibition of southbound left turns at First
Street/D Street. This would have a negligible effect on the local network (much less than
the prohibition of northbound left turns) due to the low southbound D Street left turn
volume at First Street. Only 58 vehicles per hour currently turn left from southbound D
Street onto First Street.
        Because Alternative C also involves the conversion of D Street to two-way
between First Street and Second Street, this alternative would have the same effects that
previous alternatives with two-way traffic would experience. For example, it is expected
that there would be increased queuing on southbound D Street between Second Street and
Third Street. At times, queues would extend along the entire length of this segment, in
turn causing congestion on the east-west arterials, particularly Third Street, because
drivers on these streets would be unable to turn onto D Street due to vehicle stacking.
This condition would be present under existing conditions with Alternative C, but would
worsen under General Plan 2020 conditions. At Third Street/D Street under General Plan
2020 conditions with Alternative C, the average westbound queue would extend 205 feet
over base General Plan 2020 conditions. This would result from increased queuing and
spillover on the segment of southbound D Street between Second Street and Third Street
due to the introduction of conflicting northbound movements and additional delay with
the opening of D Street to two-way to Third Street. The average delay at Third Street/D
Street is expected to increase by 32 seconds on the westbound approach to this
intersection under General Plan 2020 conditions with this alternative. The most affected
lane will be the far left lane of Third Street, although the congestion in this lane will
create friction on the other lanes of Third Street, meaning that there will be more lane
changes, leading to congestion in other lanes of Third Street.
        Under the General Plan 2020 build-out scenario, increases in queue lengths would
be seen at more intersections than under existing conditions with Alternative C. Most
significantly, queues on northbound D Street through the Gerstle Park neighborhood
would eventually extend from Second Street to past Bayview Street during a small
portion of the AM peak hour. This would, in turn, cause side street queuing on Frances

City of San Rafael                                               Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                Page 88
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Street, Ross Street and San Rafael Avenue due to lack of gaps for turning on to D Street.
Also, turns to and from driveways along D Street would become difficult. On average
over the entire AM peak hour, the northbound D Street queue at Frances Street would
increase by 184 feet over base General Plan 2020 conditions. The average delay at the
northbound approach to First Street/D Street would increase by approximately 26
seconds per vehicle under General Plan 2020 conditions with Alternative C over base
General Plan conditions. Under existing volumes with Alternative C, the northbound D
Street queuing is expected to extend to just beyond Frances Street for a short time during
the AM peak hour.
        First Street/C Street would operate at LOS "A" under both existing and General
Plan 2020 conditions with the installation of all-way stop-controls and the other changes
of Alternative C. The installation of all-way stop controls at First Street/C Street may
make the intersection easier to navigate, without introducing any noticeable negative
operational impacts. The reason that First Street/C Street would continue to operate
without major problems despite some congestion on northbound D Street is because it is
expected that the installation of all-way stop controls at First Street/C Street will make
routes through this intersection more undesirable, and the stop controls would introduce
impedance on routes through this intersection.          However, there will still be some
diversion to C Street through the Gerstle Park neighborhood due to the queuing on
northbound D Street as a result of Alternative C (approximately 25 vehicles per hour).
        Alternative C would not force any intersections to operate unacceptably by City
policy standards under existing volumes, but with General Plan 2020 volumes,
Alternative C would cause the intersection of Third Street/A Street to operate at LOS "F."
In terms of arterial level of service, Alternative C would not force any arterial segments
to fail with existing volumes, although it would cause northbound D Street to operate at
LOS "E" and westbound Third Street to operate at LOS "F" under General Plan 2020
volumes.


Summary of PM Peak Hour Conditions
        Currently, 222 vehicles per hour turn left from northbound D Street to First Street,
and 100 vehicles per hour turn left from southbound D Street to First Street during the
PM peak hour.


City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 89
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        First Street/D Street intersection would have lesser number of conflicting
movements since the left turns for northbound and southbound traffic would be
eliminated by imposing the turn restrictions. Overall volume would decrease at this
intersection. However, the northbound and southbound left turning vehicles would seek
other possible routes through the neighborhood. Redistribution of traffic would occur
throughout the neighborhood. Hence, the effects of the turn restrictions at First Street/D
Street intersection would be observed elsewhere in the neighborhood.
        Residents would have limited access due to the turn restrictions. The effect of
turn restriction would be more pronounced for the residents of the houses located on First
Street between D Street and E Street. They would have to follow a roundabout route to
reach their destination.
        The all-way stop control at First Street/C Street intersection would assign right-
of-ways to each passing vehicle. The all-way stop control would force every eastbound
vehicle passing through the intersection to stop. It would increase the travel times of
these vehicles marginally. At the same time, the all-way stop control would help to
decrease the wait time for the northbound and westbound traffic as these vehicles would
have assigned right-of-ways and would not have to wait for gaps in the eastbound traffic
stream. There would not be a major change in the overall intersection LOS compared to
the existing condition.




Installation of all-way stop control at First      D Street (pictured above) would provide
Street/D Street intersection (pictured             more convenient and direct access up to
above) would assign right-of-way to the            Second Street. More vehicles would prefer
vehicles and reduce confusion among                this over the conventional routes through
drivers. It would also reduce delay of             First Street/C Street intersection
westbound and northbound vehicles

City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 90
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        D Street would provide more direct and convenient access up to Second Street.
For this reason, more vehicles would prefer traveling north on D Street. However, as
congestion on D Street would increase, northbound vehicles would divert to alternate
routes in the neighborhood to avoid the congestion, and the resulting delay and queuing.
Shifting of traffic would occur much before the intersection of First Street/D Street. In
fact, fewer vehicles would turn right at First Street from D Street toward C Street.
        Due to easier access through northbound D Street up to Second Street and
diversion through side streets, the eastbound traffic would decrease considerably on First
Street at First Street/C Street intersection. It would decrease by over 400s vehicles per
hour during the PM peak hour.
        Diversions of northbound traffic from D Street to C Street would be significant.
Congestion and delay would increase at the intersections on C Street inside the
neighborhood. There would be steady increase in northbound vehicle volume starting
from north of San Rafael Avenue, Bayview Street, Taylor Street and other cross streets
during the PM peak hour as follows--


                                                   Additional Northbound Vehicles
              Intersections
                                                         (during PM Peak hour)
      C Street and Octavia Street                                   49
       C Street and Taylor Street                                  115
      C Street and Treanor Street                                  184
        C Street and First Street                                  189


        Redistribution of the northbound traffic in the neighborhood would mean more
vehicles on other streets in the neighborhood during the PM peak hour. However, not all
such rerouted motorists would be commuters. We anticipate that the rerouted traffic
would be a mix of commuters as well as residents of the neighborhood, who would
search for alternative routes inside the neighborhood for faster travel.
        Another major diversion would be that of the northbound left-turning (to
westbound First Street) vehicles on D Street. These vehicles would now turn left on
other neighborhood streets such as Frances Street, Ross Street, Bayview Street and San
Rafael Avenue to reach their destinations under this scenario. In effect, it would increase

City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 91
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


the volumes on these streets as well as on northbound Marin Street and E Street. In
addition, the northbound left-turning vehicles would potentially create more back-ups and
congestion on D Street as these vehicles would have to wait for adequate gaps in the
southbound through traffic stream on D Street, which has only one lane in each direction.
On average, additional 20 vehicles would travel northbound on Marin Street intersections
during the PM peak hour.
        Majority of the diverted eastbound traffic would use B Street and Woodland
Avenue. Traffic volume on eastbound Woodland Avenue would increase by 40 vehicles
per hour during the PM peak hour.
        The northbound vehicles in the neighborhood, which are introduced through the D
Street/Antonette Street intersection, would decrease by 30 vehicles per hour during the
PM peak hour. This decreased traffic would prefer traveling through other routes and not
through the neighborhood.
        Operations at the First Street/D Street intersection would improve as northbound
and southbound left-turn movements are prohibited completely. As left-turn movement
is not allowed from northbound D Street on to westbound First Street, the volume on
First Street link between D Street and E Street would decrease significantly.
        The intersection of Second Street and D Street would now be a conflict point for
northbound right-turning and southbound left-turning traffic. During the PM peak hour,
307 vehicles would travel north at the intersection of Second Street and D Street. Due to
such high volume of oncoming northbound traffic, the average delay for each southbound
vehicle would increase by more than 35 seconds during the PM peak hour.                     As a
consequence of longer delay, the southbound queue would increase.                  The average
southbound queue is expected to increase by 150 feet, which is equivalent to an
additional 6 vehicles per lane. Occasionally, this queue would occupy the entire length of
the block. Then the westbound traffic on Third Street that would be waiting to turn left
on D Street would not be able to do so. This far left lane on Third Street would back up
more than 80 feet on average (equivalent to length of 3 vehicles) and add to the friction in
the system. The delay for westbound Third Street would increase by more than 10
seconds on average.        Congestion, delay and queuing may increase at the upstream
intersections of Third Street as well, which may negatively impact the arterial operations.



City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 92
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        The existing crosswalk of Second Street on the east side of D Street would have
to be removed to minimize the conflicts between pedestrians and vehicles.
        Cumulative impact of the conditions described above would create negative
impact on the traffic operations of the major east-west arterials such as Second Street,
Third Street and Fourth Street.        The intersections located in the vicinity would be
adversely affected. The following arterial would be forced by this alternative to operate
below the City's standard in terms of operations--
             ·   Westbound Third Street
        Side street traffic would be affected in the neighborhood during the PM peak
hour. For example, queues would form on eastbound Frances Street. The length of the
queue would increase with increasing traffic volume in the network. Accident potential
would increase as lack of adequate gaps would lead the driver to take more chances to
enter the mainstream traffic. Frances Street would be accessed by the northbound left-
turning traffic of D Street as well. However, due to narrow road width and the on-street
parking spaces being filled to the capacity, such vehicles would prefer turning left on
other side streets.
        Similarly, the vehicles exiting driveways onto D Street would experience longer
delays as fewer gaps would be present in the two-way traffic stream on D Street.
Accident potential may also increase in this case as well. Potentially more red zones
would be required to improve the motorists' line of sight to assist in decision-making.
        It was determined that one northbound traffic lane would be required to
accommodate the northbound through vehicles on D Street between First Street and
Second Street. Turn pockets would have to be provided on D Street at First Street/D
Street and Second Street/D Street intersections. Also, restriping of the existing lanes
would be necessary to align the receiving lanes with the incoming lanes and to
accommodate the turn pockets. This would be a challenging task and would require
removal of all on-street parking spaces from both sides of D Street for the segment
between Frances Street and Second Street.
        This alternative would not cause any additional operational problems at the
driveway of the Arco gas station on D Street.
        Due to increase in congestion and delay in the network, several intersections in
the network would be severely affected. The following intersection would be forced by


City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 93
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


this alternative to operate below the City's policy for LOS standard under
existing volumes--
             ·   Third Street and A Street
        The trend of the existing Average Daily Traffic (ADT) counts show that similar
traffic conditions would exist in the network during the noon lunchtime peak hour and the
afternoon school dismissal peak hour as well.          The conditions would progressively
worsen from midday to the PM peak hour. Traffic volume in the network may start
diminishing from 7:00 PM onward on a typical weekday. The benefit of the two-way D
Street would be more noticeable during nighttime till early morning; more specifically,
from 7:00 PM till 7:00 AM effectively.
        Neighborhood traffic calming measures may have to be installed for the safety of
the road users in future if applicable warrants (such as traffic volume, accident history,
and 85 percentile speed criteria for roadway segments) are satisfied due to
diverted volumes. The program currently is not funded.
        Under the General Plan 2020 scenario, due to increased traffic volume in the
network, all the above-mentioned conditions would worsen. In general, as the traffic
volume would increase, shifting of traffic would occur, volume of conflicting movements
would increase, and vehicles would experience longer delays.                    The following
intersections would be forced to operate below the City's policy for LOS standards--
             ·   Fourth Street and A Street (LOS "F")
             ·   Fourth Street and B Street (LOS "F")
Also, the following arterial would be forced to operate below the City's standard--
             ·   Westbound Fourth Street
As the traffic volume reaches capacity, the software reaches its limitation. This condition
is reflected as higher delays, minimal movements on side streets and more failures in
terms of intersection and arterial operations in the entire network. This condition is
indicative of very high congestion, delays and restricted movements in the actual
network.


Advantages
    o The opening of D Street to two-way would provide more convenient and direct
        access to Second Street for northbound D Street drivers.


City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 94
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


    o The restriction of northbound and southbound left turn movements at First
        Street/D Street intersection would eliminate several conflicting movements, and
        would cause the intersection to operate with fewer possible conflicts.
    o Since vehicles would no longer be allowed to turn left onto First Street from
        northbound D Street, the volumes on First Street west of D Street would decrease.
        This is desirable, since this roadway is narrow and restricted.
    o The prohibition on southbound left turns at First Street/D Street would cause very
        few impacts and have no significant consequences due to the low existing
        volumes on this movement.
    o During both peak hours, the volume of eastbound vehicles on First Street at First
        Street/C Street intersection would decrease.
    o Installation of all-way stop control at First Street/C Street intersection would
        assign right-of-way to the vehicles and reduce confusion.
    o Delays of westbound and northbound vehicles would reduce at First Street/C
        Street intersection as these vehicles would have their right-of-way assigned and
        would not have to wait indecisively for adequate gaps in the eastbound
        traffic stream.
    o Overall intersection LOS at First Street/C Street intersection would not be very
        different compared to the existing condition.


Disadvantages
    o The prohibition of northbound left turns at First Street/D Street would cause
        drivers to turn left onto other neighborhood streets (like Frances Street, Ross
        Street, Bayview Street and San Rafael Avenue). These local roadways, along
        with others like Marin Street which would carry traffic to the west of Downtown,
        would experience increased volumes.
    o During the PM peak hour, traffic would divert off of D Street when there is
        congestion on this roadway and would instead use the neighborhood streets.
        Congestion and delay at neighborhood intersections would increase. During the
        PM peak hour when there is congestion on D Street, the volume of northbound
        vehicles on C Street would steadily increase through the neighborhood
        intersections.


City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 95
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


    o The diverted traffic mentioned in the bullet points above may potentially cause
        speeding problems on the residential Gerstle Park neighborhood streets, and
        traffic calming may be necessary to mitigate these effects.
    o Parking would be lost on D Street between Frances Street and Second Street, as
        changes to lane geometry would need to be made on D Street. Aligning the
        reconfigured traffic lanes would be challenging.
    o The existing crosswalk on the east side of Second Street at its intersection with D
        Street would have to be removed
    o Delay of eastbound vehicles at First Street/C Street intersection would increase
        marginally as each vehicle would be forced to stop by the all-way stop control.
    o Residents of the houses located on First Street between D Street and E Street
        would have difficult access through northbound D Street due to the northbound
        turn restriction at First Street/D Street intersection.
    o Vehicles exiting driveways and side streets onto D Street would experience longer
        delays compared to the existing condition.
    o Back-ups would increase on northbound D Street due to more vehicles attempting
        to negotiate left turns at cross streets. The effect would be more pronounced
        under this scenario due to turn restrictions at First Street/D Street intersection.
    o During the AM peak hour, some queuing on northbound D Street between Second
        Street and Bayview Street is expected under General Plan 2020 conditions with
        Alternative C.
    o Heavy queuing on Second, Third and Fourth Streets is expected under both
        existing and General Plan 2020 conditions during both peak hours (more frequent
        toward the end of the peak hours), but this would not be entirely due to the
        changes of Alternative C.
    o Alternative C would cause queuing of southbound D Street traffic between
        Second Street and Third Street at most points during the AM peak hour. These
        queues would in turn spill over to Third Street.
    o During the AM peak hour, Alternative C would not force any intersections or
        arterial segments to operate unacceptably with existing volumes. Under General
        Plan 2020 volumes, Alternative C would cause the intersection of Third Street/A



City of San Rafael                                                Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                 Page 96
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        Street to operate at LOS "F" and northbound D Street to operate at LOS "E" and
        westbound Third Street to operate at LOS "F."
    o During the PM peak hour, one intersection and one arterial would be forced to
        operate below the City's policy for LOS standards under existing volumes. Two
        intersections and one arterial would be forced to operate below the City's standard
        under the General Plan 2020 volume scenario.
    o Operational problems at the D Street driveway of the Arco gas station at
        southwest corner of Second Street/D Street are expected, due to the proximity of
        the exit driveway to Second Street.


Possible Mitigations
        Under AM peak hour conditions, traffic is expected to flow smoothly under
Alternative C except on D Street for a portion of the peak hour. Under the PM peak hour
volumes, the major impact of this alternative is expected on C Street and D Street as well
as on the major east-west arterials.
        It was observed during the field visits to the intersection of First Street and C
Street that eastbound vehicles on First Street often do not stay in their designated lane as
they approach C Street (i.e. they cut the turn short). In order to maintain the directional
traffic in its designated lanes, raised median on the west leg of First Street at its
intersection with C Street may be constructed. This median may extend up to the
intersection with D Street.
        The modifications to driveways at the Arco gas station on the southwest corner of
Second Street/D Street will be necessary if D Street is to be opened to two-way traffic,
since there are expected to be very few opportunities to turn out of the gas station to D
Street at most times of the day. Changes may negatively affect the business of this gas
station due to further limited on-site circulation. The gas station traffic would also
spillover to Second Street and D Street. The proposed changes could be any or, a
combination of the following--
             ·   One-way entry and exit
             ·   Turning restrictions on D Street
             ·   Closure of driveways on D Street



City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 97
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        One solution to the southbound queuing on D Street north of Second Street may
be to re-time the signals along this corridor, and potentially provide left turn phasing.
The conflicting movement of northbound and southbound left-turning traffic at the
intersection of Second Street and D Street may be separated by assigning right-of-way to
the vehicles. Adding a separate left-turn phase to the existing signal would satisfy this
requirement. However, since all of the Downtown signals are part of one coordinated
system, this would require changes to all signals in Downtown. Giving favor to D Street
traffic would improve traffic flow on this street but would likely mean higher delays at
other locations in the Downtown system or for conflicting traffic streams. Adding left
turn arrows at Third Street/D Street and Second Street/D Street would be detrimental to
intersection level of service, and would negatively impact Third and Second Street
arterials, which are major thoroughfares and are roadways of regional significance.
        Because D Street is currently a one-way street north of First Street, converting it
to two-way without any other changes will reduce the capacity of this segment by at least
fifty percent. Therefore, the only possible mitigation to retain capacity on D Street is to
eliminate on-street parking and provide additional traffic lanes. Parking would need to be
removed on D Street between Frances Street and Second Street.                  This would not
completely mitigate Alternative C's impacts, as the conflicting movements would
continue to exist and vehicle delay would remain. However, removing parking would
help to reduce queue lengths on D Street and would allow for easier turns onto D Street
from side streets and driveways. The removal of parking on D Street was assumed for
the analysis.
        Traffic calming may become warranted on the interior streets of the Gerstle Park
neighborhood due to diversions off of D Street.
        In order to address side street delay in the Gerstle Park neighborhood that may
result from northbound queuing on D Street, `Keep Clear' pavement markings could be
painted at unsignalized intersections along the D Street corridor where queuing and
congestion is expected. This would help to facilitate turns to and from side streets, but it
would not address the difficulty of turning to and from private residential and commercial
driveways on D Street with solid D Street queuing.




City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 98
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Section 3.12: ALTERNATIVE D
Convert D Street to two-way between First Street and Second Street.                     Prohibit
northbound left turn movement and allow southbound left turn movement at the
intersection of First Street/D Street. Install all-way stop control at First Street/C Street.


Summary of AM Peak Hour Conditions
        This scenario would perform well under existing conditions during the AM peak
hour, but would cause more impacts on D Street under General Plan 2020 conditions. In
the long-term, significant northbound queuing is expected on D Street as a result of
Alternative D. Currently, 58 vehicles turn left from southbound D Street to First Street
during the AM peak hour. The northbound left turn movement was counted over a 24-
hour period, and 1,743 vehicles per day (ADT) were counted turning left from
northbound D Street to First Street.
        Under Alternative D, northbound left turns at First Street/D Street would not be
allowed. Approximately 9% of northbound D Street drivers who would otherwise turn
left onto First Street would now turn right onto First Street and would make their way to
the west through Downtown. The remaining 91% would instead turn left off of D Street
onto the other neighborhood streets south of First Street.           An obvious choice for
northbound drivers wishing to turn left off of D Street would be to turn left onto Frances
Street, but this is not realistic due to its roadway characteristics. While some drivers
would turn left from D Street onto Frances Street, most would use Ross Street (and San
Rafael Avenue and Bayview Street to some extent). The prohibition of northbound left
turns to First Street from D Street would essentially have the effect of spreading this
traffic throughout the Gerstle Park neighborhood west of D Street. Approximately 85
vehicles would now turn left off of D Street onto Ross Street or Frances Street instead of
at First Street/D Street under all scenarios evaluated with the turn restriction in place. A
minimal increase would be seen at the northbound left turn movements at D
Street/Bayview Street and D Street/San Rafael Avenue. The most noticeable effect of
Alternative D would be an increase in traffic volumes on the neighborhood streets west of
D Street, as drivers coming from D Street to the south would now use these roadways to
head west. On occasion, one vehicle waiting to turn left from northbound D Street onto

City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 99
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


either Ross Street or Frances Street would hold up vehicles behind it, since there are no
dedicated left turn lanes. This is less of the case when vehicles turn left from northbound
D Street at First Street, since there is an existing left turn pocket.
        Because Alternative D also involves the conversion of D Street to two-way
between First Street and Second Street, this alternative would have the same effects that
previous alternatives with two-way traffic would experience. For example, it is expected
that there would be increased queuing on southbound D Street between Second Street and
Third Street. At times, queues would extend along the entire length of this segment, in
turn causing congestion on the east-west arterials, particularly Third Street, because
drivers on these streets would be unable to turn onto D Street due to vehicle stacking.
This condition would be present under existing conditions with Alternative D, but would
worsen under General Plan 2020 conditions. At Third Street/D Street under General Plan
2020 conditions with Alternative D, the average westbound queue would extend 229 feet
over base General Plan 2020 conditions. This would result from increased queuing and
spillover on the segment of southbound D Street between Second Street and Third Street
due to the introduction of conflicting northbound movements and additional delay with
the opening of D Street to two-way to Third Street. The average delay at Third Street/D
Street is expected to increase by 39 seconds on the westbound approach to this
intersection under General Plan 2020 conditions with this alternative. The most affected
lane will be the far left lane of Third Street, although the congestion in this lane will
create friction on the other lanes of Third Street, meaning that there will be more lane
changes, leading to congestion in other lanes of Third Street.
        Under the General Plan 2020 build-out scenario, increases in queue lengths would
be seen at more intersections than under existing conditions with Alternative D. Most
significantly, queues on northbound D Street through the Gerstle Park neighborhood
would eventually extend from Second Street to past Bayview Street during a small
portion of the AM peak hour. This would, in turn, cause side street queuing on Frances
Street, Ross Street and San Rafael Avenue due to lack of gaps for turning on to D Street.
Also, turns to and from driveways along D Street would become difficult. On average
over the entire AM peak hour, the northbound D Street queue at Frances Street would
increase by 108 feet over base General Plan 2020 conditions. The average delay at the


City of San Rafael                                               Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 100
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


northbound approach to First Street/D Street would increase by approximately 15
seconds per vehicle under General Plan 2020 conditions with Alternative D over base
General Plan conditions. Under existing volumes with Alternative D, the northbound D
Street queuing is expected to extend to just beyond Ross Street for a short time at the end
of the AM peak hour.
        First Street/C Street would operate at LOS "A" under both existing and General
Plan 2020 conditions with the installation of all-way stop-controls and the other changes
of Alternative D. The installation of all-way stop controls at First Street/C Street may
make the intersection easier to navigate, without introducing any noticeable negative
operational impacts. The reason that First Street/C Street would continue to operate
without major problems despite some congestion on northbound D Street is because it is
expected that the installation of all-way stop controls at First Street/C Street will make
routes through this intersection more undesirable, and the stop controls would introduce
impedance on routes through this intersection.          However, there will still be some
diversion to C Street through the Gerstle Park neighborhood due to the queuing on
northbound D Street as a result of Alternative D (approximately 25 vehicles per hour).
        Alternative D would not force any intersections to operate unacceptably by City
policy standards under existing volumes, but with General Plan 2020 volumes,
Alternative D would cause the intersection of Third Street/A Street to operate at LOS
"F." In terms of arterial level of service, Alternative D would force westbound Third
Street to operate at LOS "F" under existing volumes.


Summary of PM Peak Hour Conditions
        Currently, 100 vehicles per hour turn left from southbound D Street to First Street
during the PM peak hour.
        First Street/D Street intersection would have lesser number of conflicting
movements since the northbound left turn movements would be prohibited. Overall
volume at this intersection would decrease.          However, the northbound left turning
vehicles would seek other possible routes through the neighborhood. Redistribution of
traffic would occur throughout the neighborhood. Most likely, the effects of the turn
restrictions at First Street/D Street intersection would be observed elsewhere in


City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 101
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


the neighborhood as well. Also, residents of the houses located on First Street between D
Street and E Street would have difficult access through northbound D Street due to the
turn restriction. They would have to follow a roundabout route to reach their destination.
        Redistribution of the northbound traffic in the neighborhood would mean more
vehicles on other streets in the neighborhood during the PM peak hour. However, not all
such rerouted motorists would be commuters. We anticipate that the rerouted traffic
would be a mix of commuters as well as residents of the neighborhood, who would
search for alternative routes inside the neighborhood for faster travel.
        The all-way stop control at First Street/C Street intersection would assign right-
of-ways to each passing vehicle. The all-way stop control would force every eastbound
vehicle passing through the intersection to stop. It would increase the travel times of
these vehicles marginally. At the same time, the all-way stop control would help to
decrease the wait time for the northbound and westbound traffic as these vehicles would
have assigned right-of-ways and would not have to wait for gaps in the eastbound traffic
stream. There would not be a major change in the overall intersection LOS compared to
the existing condition.
        D Street would provide more direct and convenient access up to Second Street.
For this reason, more vehicles would prefer traveling north on D Street. However, as
volume and congestion on northbound D Street would increase, northbound vehicles
would divert to alternate routes in the neighborhood to avoid the congestion, and the
resulting delay and queuing. Shifting of traffic would occur much before the intersection
of First Street/D Street.
        In fact, fewer vehicles would turn right at First Street from D Street toward C
Street. Due to easier access through northbound D Street up to Second Street and
diversion through side streets, the eastbound traffic would decrease considerably on First
Street at First Street/C Street intersection. It would decrease by over 400 vehicles per
hour during the PM peak hour.
        Diversions of northbound traffic from D Street to C Street would be significant.
Congestion and delay would increase at the intersections on C Street inside the
neighborhood. There would be steady increase in northbound vehicle volume starting



City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 102
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


from north of San Rafael Avenue, Bayview Street, Taylor Street and other cross streets
during the PM peak hour as follows--
                                                   Additional Northbound Vehicles
              Intersections
                                                         (during PM Peak hour)
      C Street and Octavia Street                                   49
       C Street and Taylor Street                                  112
      C Street and Treanor Street                                  184
        C Street and First Street                                  188


        Another major diversion would be that of the northbound left-turning (to
westbound First Street) vehicles on D Street. These vehicles would now turn left on
other neighborhood streets such as Frances Street, Ross Street, Bayview Street and San
Rafael Avenue to reach their destinations under this scenario. In effect, it would increase
the volumes on these streets as well as on northbound Marin Street and E Street. In
addition, the northbound left-turning vehicles would potentially create more back-ups and
congestion on D Street as these vehicles would have to wait for adequate gaps in the
southbound through traffic stream on D Street, which has only one lane in each direction.
On average, additional 20 vehicles would travel northbound on Marin Street intersections
during the PM peak hour.
        Majority of the diverted eastbound traffic would use B Street and Woodland
Avenue. Traffic volume on eastbound Woodland Avenue would increase by 40 vehicles
per hour during the PM peak hour.
        The northbound vehicles in the neighborhood, which are introduced through the D
Street/Antonette Street intersection, would decrease by 35 vehicles per hour during the
PM peak hour. This decreased traffic would prefer traveling through other routes and not
through the neighborhood.
        Operations at the First Street/D Street intersection would improve as northbound
left-turn movements are prohibited completely. As left-turn movement is not allowed
from northbound D Street on to westbound First Street, the volume on First Street link
between D Street and E Street would decrease significantly. Restriction of southbound
movement would have minimal impact as the existing volumes for this movement is low.

City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 103
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        The intersection of Second Street and D Street would now be a conflict point for
northbound right-turning and southbound left-turning traffic. During the PM peak hour,
324 vehicles would travel north at the intersection of Second Street and D Street. Due to
such high volume of oncoming northbound traffic, the average delay for each southbound
vehicle would increase by more than 15 seconds during the PM peak hour.                     As a
consequence of longer delay, the southbound queue would increase.                  The average
southbound queue is expected to increase by more than 110 feet, which is equivalent to
an additional 4 vehicles per lane. Occasionally, this queue would occupy the entire
length of the block. Cumulative impact of the conditions described above would create
negative impact on the traffic operations of the major east-west arterials such as Second
Street, Third Street and Fourth Street. Nearby intersections would be affected as well.
        The existing crosswalk of Second Street on the east side of D Street would have
to be removed to minimize the conflicts between pedestrians and vehicles.
        Side street traffic would be affected in the neighborhood during the PM peak
hour. For example, queues would form on eastbound Frances Street. The length of the
queue would increase with increasing traffic volume in the network. Accident potential
would increase as lack of adequate gaps would lead the driver to take more chances to
enter the mainstream traffic. Frances Street would be accessed by the northbound left-
turning traffic of D Street as well. However, due to narrow road width and the on-street
parking spaces being filled to the capacity, such vehicles would prefer turning left on
other side streets.
        Similarly, the vehicles exiting driveways onto D Street would experience longer
delays as fewer gaps would be present in the two-way traffic stream on D Street.
Accident potential may also increase in this case as well. Potentially more red zones
would be required to improve the motorists' line of sight to assist in decision-making.
        It was determined that one northbound traffic lane would be required to
accommodate the northbound through vehicles on D Street between First Street and
Second Street. Turn pockets would have to be provided on D Street at First Street/D
Street and Second Street/D Street intersections. Also, restriping of the existing lanes
would be necessary to align the receiving lanes with the incoming lanes and to
accommodate the turn pockets. This would be a challenging task and would require


City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 104
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


removal of all on-street parking spaces from both sides of D Street for the segment
between Frances Street and Second Street.
        This alternative would cause any additional operational problems at the driveway
of the Arco gas station on D Street. The operations of the driveway would fail during the
PM peak hour and mitigations would be necessary (discussed in the "Possible
Mitigations" section).
        The trend of the existing Average Daily Traffic (ADT) counts show that similar
traffic conditions would exist in the network during the noon lunchtime peak hour and the
afternoon school dismissal peak hour as well.          The conditions would progressively
worsen from midday to the PM peak hour. Traffic volume in the network may start
diminishing from 7:00 PM onward on a typical weekday. The benefit of the two-way D
Street would be more noticeable during nighttime till early morning; more specifically,
from 7:00 PM till 7:00 AM effectively.
        Neighborhood traffic calming measures may have to be installed for the safety of
the road users in future if applicable warrants (such as traffic volume, accident history,
and 85 percentile speed criteria for roadway segments) are satisfied due to
diverted volumes. The program currently is not funded.
        Under the General Plan 2020 scenario, due to increased traffic volume in the
network, all the above-mentioned conditions would worsen. In general, as the traffic
volume would increase, shifting of traffic would occur, volume of conflicting movements
would increase, and vehicles would experience longer delays. Fourth Street/A Street
intersection would be forced to operate below the City's policy for LOS standards. Also,
the following arterials would be forced by this alternative to operate below the
City's standard--
             ·   Eastbound Second Street
             ·   Westbound Fourth Street
As the traffic volume reaches capacity, the software reaches its limitation. This condition
is reflected as higher delays, minimal movements on side streets and more failures in the
entire network. This condition is indicative of very high congestion, delays and restricted
movements in the actual network.



City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 105
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Advantages
    o The opening of D Street to two-way would provide more convenient and direct
        access to Second Street for D Street drivers.
    o The restriction of northbound left turn movement at First Street/D Street
        intersection would eliminate several conflicting movements, and would cause the
        intersection to operate with fewer possible conflicts.
    o Since vehicles would no longer be allowed to turn left onto First Street from
        northbound D Street, the volumes on First Street west of D Street would decrease.
        This is desirable, since this roadway is narrow and restricted.
    o During both peak hours, the volume of eastbound vehicles on First Street at First
        Street/C Street intersection would decrease.
    o Installation of all-way stop control at First Street/C Street intersection would
        assign right-of-way to the vehicles and reduce confusion.
    o Delays of westbound and northbound vehicles would reduce at First Street/C
        Street intersection as these vehicles would have their right-of-way assigned and
        would not have to wait indecisively for adequate gaps in the eastbound
        traffic stream.
    o Overall intersection LOS at First Street/C Street intersection would not be very
        different compared to the existing condition.


Disadvantages
    o The prohibition of northbound left turns at First Street/D Street would cause
        drivers to turn left onto other neighborhood streets (like Frances Street, Ross
        Street, Bayview Street and San Rafael Avenue). These local roadways, along
        with others like Marin Street which would carry traffic to the west of Downtown,
        would experience increased volumes.
    o During the PM peak hour, traffic would divert off of D Street when there is
        congestion on this roadway and would instead use the neighborhood streets.
        Congestion and delay at neighborhood intersections would increase. During the
        PM peak hour when there is congestion on D Street, the volume of northbound



City of San Rafael                                               Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                               Page 106
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        vehicles on C Street would steadily increase through the neighborhood
        intersections.
    o The diverted traffic mentioned in the bullet points above may potentially cause
        speeding problems on the residential Gerstle Park neighborhood streets, and
        traffic calming may be necessary to mitigate these effects.
    o Delay of eastbound vehicles at First Street/C Street intersection would increase
        marginally because each eastbound vehicle would be forced to stop by the all-way
        stop control.
    o Parking would be lost on D Street between Frances Street and Second Street, as
        changes to lane geometry would need to be made on D Street. Aligning the
        reconfigured traffic lanes would be challenging.
    o The existing crosswalk on the east side of Second Street at its intersection with D
        Street would have to be removed.
    o Residents of the houses located on First Street between D Street and E Street
        would have difficult access through northbound D Street due to the northbound
        left turn restriction at First Street/D Street intersection.
    o Vehicles exiting driveways and side streets onto D Street would experience longer
        delays compared to existing conditions.
    o Back-ups would increase on northbound D Street due to more vehicles attempting
        to negotiate left turns at cross streets. The effect would be more pronounced
        under this scenario due to turn restrictions at First Street/D Street intersection.
    o During the AM peak hour, some queuing on northbound D Street between Second
        Street and Bayview Street is expected under General Plan 2020 conditions with
        Alternative D.
    o Alternative D would cause queuing of southbound D Street traffic between
        Second Street and Third Street at most points during the AM peak hour. These
        queues would in turn spill over to Third Street.
    o Heavy queuing on Second, Third and Fourth Streets is expected under both
        existing and General Plan 2020 conditions during both peak hours (more frequent
        toward the end of the peak hours when the volumes would be high), but this
        would not be entirely due to the changes of Alternative D.


City of San Rafael                                                Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                Page 107
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


    o During the AM peak hour, Alternative D would force westbound Third Street to
        operate unacceptably with existing volumes. Under General Plan 2020 volumes,
        Alternative D would cause the intersection of Third Street/A Street to operate at
        LOS "F."
    o During the PM peak hour, one intersection and two arterials would be forced by
        this alternative to operate below the City's policy for LOS standards under
        General Plan 2020 volumes.
    o Operational problems at the D Street driveway of the Arco gas station at
        southwest corner of Second Street/D Street are expected, due to the proximity of
        the exit driveway to Second Street.


Possible Mitigations
        Under AM peak hour conditions, traffic is expected to flow smoothly under
Alternative D except on D Street for a portion of the peak hour. Under the PM peak hour
volumes, the major impact of this alternative is expected on C Street and D Street as well
as on the major east-west arterials.
        It was observed during the field visits to the intersection of First Street and C
Street that eastbound vehicles on First Street often do not stay in their designated lane as
they approach C Street (i.e. they cut the turn short). In order to maintain the directional
traffic in its designated lanes, raised median on the west leg of First Street at its
intersection with C Street may be constructed. This median may extend up to the
intersection with D Street.
        The modifications to driveways at the Arco gas station on the southwest corner of
Second Street/D Street will be necessary if D Street is to be opened to two-way traffic,
since there are expected to be very few opportunities to turn out of the gas station to D
Street at most times of the day. Changes may negatively affect the business of this gas
station due to further limited on-site circulation. The gas station traffic would also
spillover to Second Street and D Street. The proposed changes could be any or, a
combination of the following--
             ·   One-way entry and exit
             ·   Turning restrictions on D Street


City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 108
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


             ·   Closure of driveways on D Street
        One solution to the southbound queuing on D Street north of Second Street may
be to re-time the signals along this corridor, and potentially provide left turn phasing.
The conflicting movement of northbound and southbound left-turning traffic at the
intersection of Second Street and D Street may be separated by assigning right-of-way to
the vehicles. Adding a separate left-turn phase to the existing signal would satisfy this
requirement. However, since all of the Downtown signals are part of one coordinated
system, this would require changes to all signals in Downtown. Giving favor to D Street
traffic would improve traffic flow on this street but would likely mean higher delays at
other locations in the Downtown system or for conflicting traffic streams. Adding left
turn arrows at Third Street/D Street and Second Street/D Street would be detrimental to
intersection level of service, and would negatively impact Third and Second Street
arterials, which are major thoroughfares and are roadways of regional significance.
        Because D Street is currently a one-way street north of First Street, converting it
to two-way without any other changes will reduce the capacity of this segment by at least
fifty percent. Therefore, the only possible mitigation to retain capacity on D Street is to
eliminate on-street parking and provide additional traffic lanes. Parking would need to be
removed on D Street between Frances Street and Second Street.                  This would not
completely mitigate Alternative D's impacts, as the conflicting movements would
continue to exist and vehicle delay would remain. However, removing parking would
help to reduce queue lengths on D Street and would allow for easier turns onto D Street
from side streets and driveways. The removal of parking on D Street was assumed for
the analysis.
        In order to address side street delay in the Gerstle Park neighborhood that may
result from northbound queuing on D Street, `Keep Clear' pavement markings could be
painted at unsignalized intersections along the D Street corridor where queuing and
congestion is expected. This would help to facilitate turns to and from side streets, but it
would not address the difficulty of turning to and from private residential and commercial
driveways on D Street with solid D Street queuing.




City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 109
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Section 3.13: ALTERNATIVE E
Install traffic signals at the intersections of First Street/D Street and First Street/C
Street, with no other changes to the local network.


Summary of AM Peak Hour Conditions
        Alternative E would perform well with very few impacts to east-west arterials or
in the Gerstle Park neighborhood under both existing and General Plan 2020 scenarios.
The traffic signals would provide more efficient traffic management and they would be
coordinated with the Downtown system.
        The intersection of First Street/C Street would operate at LOS "B" under the
signalized scenario with existing and General Plan 2020 volumes, with approximately 20
seconds increase in delay for drivers on the westbound and northbound approaches. This
is slightly worse in terms of operation than under the existing configuration without a
traffic signal, although LOS "B" operation is still very good operation. Drivers at the
westbound approach to First Street/D Street would experience about 15 additional
seconds of delay, on average, with a traffic signal due to the timing of the signal phases
and the fact that westbound drivers must now wait for a green light to cross or turn left
onto D Street instead of just a gap in D Street traffic. However, the intersection of First
Street/D Street would operate at LOS "A" overall under both existing and General Plan
2020 volumes. Alternative E would not cause any intersections or arterial segments in
the Gerstle Park neighborhood or adjacent areas to operate unacceptably, and would have
very few noticeable impacts to the surrounding roadway network.
        No significant queuing would result at either First Street/C Street or First Street/D
Street under existing or General Plan 2020 volumes with traffic signals.                Also, no
significant increases in queuing (more than 75 feet in length) would result at any of the
other intersections in the Gerstle Park neighborhood or in the adjacent areas. Traffic
would flow smoothly through the Gerstle Park neighborhood without major delays. The
Arco gas station would not experience negative impacts.




City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 110
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        A few parking spaces would be lost at First Street/D Street and First Street/C
Street with the installation of traffic signals. However, the loss of parking under this
scenario would be much less than the previous alternatives with D Street as two-way.


Summary of PM Peak Hour Conditions
        This alternative would manage the traffic more effectively in the neighborhood
since signal control is more efficient than stop control. Long queues are expected to form
at the northbound approach of D Street at its intersection with First Street. Occasionally,
the northbound queue on D Street would extend up to its intersection with Bayview
Street. However, these queues would not be static as these would dissipate in a timely
manner. The average delay for eastbound vehicles on First Street would increase by little
more than 10 seconds during the PM peak hour. The average queue length at the
eastbound approach of First Street at its intersection with C Street is expected to increase
by 156 feet, which is equivalent to the length of six vehicles. The average delay for such
vehicles is expected to increase marginally by 10 seconds compared to the existing
conditions. If the proposals of this alternative are implemented, the queues are expected
to dissipate due to better management of traffic at the two newly signalized intersections.




                       Occasionally, the northbound queue on D
                       Street at First Street/D Street would extend
                       up to D Street/Bayview Street during the
                       PM peak hour. However, queue formation
                       and dissipation would occur in a timely
                       manner due to better traffic management
                       by the signal control at First Street/D Street


City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 111
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        The Fourth Street/A Street intersection would be forced to operate below the
standard set by the City's policy for LOS. In terms of arterial operations, the arterials
would not fail under existing volume condition.
        Operations at Frances Street would be slightly affected. The average queue
length on eastbound Frances Street at its intersection with D Street would increase by
approximately 140 feet (equivalent to the length of five-six vehicles). These vehicles
would experience additional 30 seconds delay on average.
        Similar traffic conditions would exist under the General Plan 2020 traffic
condition.       No additional intersections would be forced to fail under this volume.
However, the following arterial failures due to this alternative would occur in terms
of operations--
             ·    Southbound E Street
             ·    Eastbound Second Street
             ·    Westbound Fourth Street


Advantages
    o Traffic signal controls would assign right-of-way at the First Street/C Street and
        First Street/D Street intersections and would reduce confusion.
    o Traffic would move in platoons under the new signal control.
    o Queue formation and dissipation on the streets would be very systematic.
    o The new signals coordinated with adjacent traffic signals would control the traffic
        stream more efficiently.
    o The Arco gas station driveway would not experience any major operational issues
        due to these changes.
    o The intersections would be more pedestrian-friendly.


Disadvantages
    o Some parking spaces in the vicinity of First Street/D Street and First Street/C
        Street intersections may need to be removed for the signal installations in order to
        provide required lanes and turn lanes.
    o Marginal increases in delay may be experienced on some approaches to First
        Street/C Street and First Street/D Street intersections.




City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 112
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Section 3.14: ALTERNATIVE 9
Convert D Street to two-way between First Street and Second Street. Install traffic
signal controls at First Street/C Street and First Street/D Street intersections.


Summary of AM Peak Hour Conditions
        Alternative 9 would perform well with very few impacts to east-west arterials or
in the Gerstle Park neighborhood under both existing and General Plan 2020 scenarios.
The traffic signals would provide more efficient traffic management and they would be
coordinated with the Downtown system. Additionally, two-way access on D Street
between First and Second Streets would provide a convenient link to Downtown for D
Street drivers.
        The intersection of First Street/C Street would operate at LOS "B" under
Alternative 9 with existing and General Plan 2020 volumes, with approximately 15
seconds increase in delay for drivers on the westbound and northbound approaches. This
is slightly worse in terms of operation than under the existing configuration without a
traffic signal, although LOS "B" operation is still very good operation. Drivers at the
westbound approach to First Street/D Street would experience about 12 additional
seconds of delay, on average, with a traffic signal due to the timing of the signal phases
and the fact that westbound drivers must now wait for a green light to cross or turn left
onto D Street instead of just a gap in D Street traffic. However, the intersection of First
Street/D Street would operate at LOS "A" overall under both existing and General Plan
2020 volumes.
        Alternative 9 would not cause any intersections or arterial segments in the Gerstle
Park neighborhood or adjacent areas to operate unacceptably under existing volumes.
Under General Plan 2020 volumes, Alternative 9 would force the intersection of Third
Street/A Street to operate unacceptably, as well as the arterial segment of westbound
Third Street.
        The intersections of First Street/C Street and First Street/D Street would
experience moderate increases in queuing under General Plan 2020 conditions, although
these queues are only expect to last one or two signal cycles, and would dissipate quickly.

City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 113
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Under General Plan 2020 volumes, the average eastbound queues at First Street/C Street
would reach approximately 117 feet (compared to no queuing under the current control
scheme) and the average northbound queue would increase by 123 feet over the base
General Plan 2020 scenario. The average southbound queue length at First Street/D
Street would increase by 90 feet over baseline General Plan 2020 conditions.                   No
significant increases in queuing (more than 75 feet in length) would result at any of the
other intersections in the Gerstle Park neighborhood.          Traffic would flow smoothly
through the Gerstle Park neighborhood without major delays.
        Because Alternative 9 also involves the conversion of D Street to two-way
between First Street and Second Street, this alternative would have the same effects that
previous alternatives with two-way traffic would experience. For example, it is expected
that there would be increased queuing on southbound D Street between Second Street and
Third Street. At times, queues would extend along the entire length of this segment, in
turn causing congestion on the east-west arterials, particularly Third Street, because
drivers on these streets would be unable to turn onto D Street due to vehicle stacking.
This condition would be present under existing conditions with Alternative 9, but would
worsen under General Plan 2020 conditions. At Third Street/D Street under General Plan
2020 conditions with Alternative 9, the average westbound queue would extend 150 feet
over base General Plan 2020 conditions. This would result from increased queuing and
spillover on the segment of southbound D Street between Second Street and Third Street
due to the introduction of conflicting northbound movements and additional delay with
the opening of D Street to two-way to Third Street. The average delay at Third Street/D
Street is expected to increase by 46 seconds on the westbound approach to this
intersection under General Plan 2020 conditions with this alternative. The most affected
lane will be the far left lane of Third Street, although the congestion in this lane will
create friction on the other lanes of Third Street, meaning that there will be more lane
changes, leading to congestion in other lanes of Third Street.




City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 114
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Summary of PM Peak Hour Conditions
          This alternative would manage the traffic more effectively in the neighborhood by
the traffic signals at First Street/C Street and First Street/D Street intersections.
Synchronization of these two signals with each other as well as with other adjacent
signals would result in movement of the traffic in platoons. Long queues are expected to
form at the northbound approach of C Street and D Street at their intersections on First
Street.     Occasionally, the northbound queue on D Street would extend up to its
intersection with Bayview Street. However, these queues would not be static as these
would dissipate in a timely manner depending on the signal timings. The average delay
for eastbound vehicles on First Street would increase by about 20 seconds during the PM
peak hour.      Average queue length at the eastbound approach of First Street at its
intersection with C Street is expected to increase by 184 feet, which is equivalent to the
length of seven vehicles.
          The majority of northbound vehicles on D Street would either stay on D Street to
reach Second Street due to easier access, or they would divert to northbound C Street
through side streets in the neighborhood. Unlike current conditions, heavy diversion
would not occur at First Street/D Street intersection. Eastbound traffic volume would
decrease considerably on First Street at First Street/C Street intersection.            It would
decrease by 507 vehicles per hour during the PM peak hour.
          Diversions of northbound traffic from D Street to C Street through side streets
would be significant.          Steady increase of the northbound vehicle volume would be
observed on C Street starting from north of San Rafael Avenue, Bayview Street, Taylor
Street and other cross streets during the PM peak hour.             Due to heavier volume,
congestion and delay would also increase at these intersections on C Street.                  The
following table shows the increase in the northbound C Street volume--


                                                   Additional Northbound Vehicles
               Intersections
                                                        (during PM Peak hour)
      C Street and Octavia Street                                   72
       C Street and Taylor Street                                  103
      C Street and Treanor Street                                  173
          C Street and First Street                                147

City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 115
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        The eastbound traffic volume on First Street at C Street would decrease; however,
the northbound traffic volume on C Street would increase. Effectively, the entering
traffic volume at this intersection volume would not see a major reduction.




 Diversions from northbound D Street to            Northbound C Street near San Rafael
 other neighborhood streets such as C              Avenue would carry more traffic as
 Street would start at San Rafael Avenue,          diversion through the neighborhood would
 well ahead of the intersection of First           increase
 Street/D Street

        Majority of the diverted eastbound traffic would use B Street, Woodland Avenue
and even Albert Park Lane. Traffic volume on eastbound Woodland Avenue would
increase by more than 60 vehicles per hour during the PM peak hour.
        The intersection of Second Street and D Street would now be a conflict point for
northbound right-turning and southbound left-turning traffic. During the PM peak hour,
over 350 northbound vehicles would turn right at the intersection of Second Street and D
Street. These vehicles would be in conflict with 200 southbound left turning vehicles.
Due to such high volume of oncoming northbound traffic, the average delay for each
southbound vehicle would increase by 15 seconds during the PM peak hour. As a
consequence of longer delay, the southbound queue would increase. The maximum
southbound queue is expected to increase by more than 100 feet, which is equivalent to
additional four vehicles per lane. At times, this queue would occupy the entire length of
the block. The westbound traffic on Third Street that would be waiting to turn left on D
Street would not be able to do so. The far left lane on Third Street would back up and

City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 116
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


add to the friction in the system. The delay for westbound Third Street would also
increase. Congestion, delay and queuing may increase at the upstream intersections of
Third Street as well, which may negatively impact the arterial operations.
        The existing crosswalk of Second Street on the east side of D Street would have
to be removed to minimize the conflicts between pedestrians and vehicles.




Second Street/D Street (pictured above)            Southbound queues on D Street (pictured
would be a conflict point of northbound            above) would occupy the entire block,
and southbound traffic. Southbound left            preventing vehicle entry from westbound
turning traffic would have to find adequate        Third Street Operation of this major east-
gaps in the northbound through traffic             west arterial would be negatively impacted.
stream & would experience longer delay             Pictured above is the southbound queue on
and queue build-up                                 D Street viewed from Third Street


        Cumulative impact of the conditions described above would create negative
impacts on the traffic operations of the major east-west arterials such as Second Street,
Third Street and Fourth Street.        The intersections located in the vicinity would be
adversely affected. The following arterials would be forced to operate below the City's
Standard in terms of operations--
             ·   Eastbound Second Street
             ·   Eastbound Fourth Street
             ·   Southbound B Street
             ·   Southbound E Street
        Side street traffic would be affected in the neighborhood during the PM peak
hour. For example, queues would form on eastbound Frances Street. The length of the

City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 117
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


queue would increase with increasing traffic volume in the network. Accident potential
would increase as lack of adequate gaps would lead the driver to take more chances to
enter the mainstream traffic. Frances Street would be accessed by the northbound left-
turning traffic of D Street as well. However, due to narrow road width and the on-street
parking spaces being filled to the capacity, such vehicles would prefer turning left on
other side streets.




Queues on eastbound Frances Street                 Pictured above is Ross Street at D Street.
(pictured above) would increase; some              Side street traffic would be affected due to
traffic may also overflow to E Street              diversions

        Similarly, the vehicles exiting driveways onto D Street would experience longer
delays as fewer gaps would be present in the two-way traffic stream on D Street.
Accident potential may also increase in this case as well. Potentially more red zones
would be required to improve the motorists' line of sight to assist in decision-making.
        It was determined that one northbound traffic lane would be required to
accommodate the northbound through vehicles on D Street between First Street and
Second Street. Turn pockets would have to be provided on D Street at First Street/D
Street and Second Street/D Street intersections. Also, restriping of the existing lanes
would be necessary to align the receiving lanes with the incoming lanes and to
accommodate the turn pockets. This would be a challenging task and would require
removal of all on-street parking spaces from both sides of D Street for the segment
between Frances Street and Second Street.



City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 118
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        Heavy queuing would be observed at the driveway of the Arco gas station on D
Street. Vehicles exiting the Arco driveway would have to wait longer to find adequate
gaps in the two-way traffic on D Street. Traffic would spill over to Second Street.
        Due to increase in congestion and delay in the network, several intersections in
the network would be severely affected. The following intersections would be forced by
this alternative to operate below the City's policy for LOS standard under
existing volumes--
             ·   Second Street and B Street
             ·   Fourth Street and B Street
             ·   Third Street and A Street
             ·   Fourth Street and E Street
        The traffic flow would become restricted toward the end of the PM peak hour, as
the volume in the network would reach its capacity. Major east-west movements would
be affected but would not be stopped completely. Side street movements would be
heavily impacted. Turning movements from side streets and driveways would be very
limited. However, this situation would exist in the network for short duration, not longer
than 10-15 minutes.
        The trend of the existing Average Daily Traffic (ADT) counts show that similar
traffic conditions would exist in the network during the noon lunch time peak hour and
the afternoon school dismissal peak hour as well. The conditions would progressively
worsen from midday to the PM peak hour. Traffic volume in the network may start
diminishing from 7:00 PM onward on a typical weekday. The benefit of the two-way D
Street would be more noticeable during nighttime till early morning; more specifically,
from 7:00 PM till 7:00 AM.
        Neighborhood traffic calming measures may have to be installed for the safety of
the road users in future if applicable warrants (such as traffic volume, accident history,
and 85 percentile speed criteria for roadway segments) are satisfied due to
diverted volumes. The program currently is not funded.
        Under the General Plan 2020 scenario, due to increased traffic volume in the
network, all the above-mentioned conditions would worsen. In general, as the traffic


City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 119
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


volume would increase, shifting of traffic would occur, volume of conflicting movements
would increase, and vehicles would experience longer delays. As the traffic volume
reaches capacity, the software reaches its limitation. This condition is reflected as higher
delays, minimal movements on side streets and more failures in the entire network. This
condition is indicative of very high congestion, delays and restricted movements in the
actual network.


Advantages
    o The opening of D Street to two-way would provide more convenient and direct
        access to Second Street for northbound D Street drivers.
    o During both peak hours, the volume of eastbound vehicles on First Street at First
        Street/C Street intersection would decrease.
    o Traffic signal controls would assign right-of-way at the First Street/C Street and
        First Street/D Street intersections and would reduce confusion.
    o Traffic would move in platoons under the new signal control.
    o Queue formation and dissipation on the streets would be very systematic.
    o The new signals coordinated with adjacent traffic signals would control the traffic
        stream more efficiently.
    o The intersections would be more pedestrian-friendly.


Disadvantages
    o Marginal increases in delay may be experienced on some approaches to the First
        Street/C Street and First Street/D Street intersections.
    o Alternative 9 would cause queuing of southbound D Street traffic between Second
        Street and Third Street at many points during the AM peak hour. These queues
        would in turn spill over to Third Street.
    o During the PM peak hour, traffic would divert off of D Street when there is
        congestion on this roadway and would instead use the neighborhood streets.
        Therefore, congestion and delay on the neighborhood intersections would
        increase. For example, volume of northbound vehicles on C Street would steadily
        increase through the neighborhood intersections.


City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 120
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


    o The diverted traffic mentioned in the bullet points above may potentially cause
        speeding problems on the residential Gerstle Park neighborhood streets, and
        traffic calming may be necessary to mitigate these effects.
    o Parking would be lost on both sides of D Street between Frances Street and
        Second Street, as changes to lane geometry would need to be made on D Street.
        Aligning the reconfigured traffic lanes would be challenging.
    o The existing crosswalk on the east side of Second Street at its intersection with D
        Street would have to be removed.
    o Heavy queuing on Second, Third and Fourth Streets is expected under both
        existing and General Plan 2020 conditions during both peak hours (more frequent
        toward the end of the peak hours), but this would not be entirely due to the
        changes of Alternative 9.
    o During the PM peak hour, four intersections and four arterials would be forced to
        operate below the City's LOS standard by this alternative under existing volumes.
        Alternative 9 would cause one intersection and one roadway segment to fail under
        General Plan 2020 volumes during the AM peak hour.
    o Operational problems at the D Street driveway of the Arco gas station at the
        southwest corner of Second Street/D Street intersection are expected, due to the
        proximity of the exit driveway to Second Street.


Possible Mitigations
        Under PM peak hour volumes, the major impact of this alternative is expected on
C Street and D Street as well as on the major east-west arterials. Impacts would also be
observed as diversions on side streets in the neighborhood. There are minimal impacts
expected during the AM peak hour.
        It was observed during the field visits to the intersection of First Street and C
Street that eastbound vehicles on First Street often do not stay in their designated lane as
they approach C Street (i.e. they cut the turn short). In order to maintain the directional
traffic in its designated lanes, raised median on the west leg of First Street at its
intersection with C Street may be constructed. This median may extend up to the
intersection with D Street.


City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 121
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        One solution to the southbound queuing on D Street north of Second Street may
be to re-time the signals along this corridor, and potentially provide left turn phasing.
The conflicting movement of northbound and southbound left-turning traffic at the
intersection of Second Street and D Street may be separated by assigning right-of-way to
the vehicles. Adding a separate left-turn phase to the existing signal would satisfy this
requirement. However, since all of the Downtown signals are part of one coordinated
system, this would require changes to all signals in Downtown. Giving favor to D Street
traffic would improve traffic flow on this street but would likely mean higher delays at
other locations in the Downtown system or for conflicting traffic streams. Adding left
turn arrows at Third Street/D Street and Second Street/D Street would be detrimental to
intersection level of service, and would negatively impact Third and Second Street
arterials, which are major thoroughfares and are roadways of regional significance.
        Because D Street is currently a one-way street north of First Street, converting it
to two-way without any other changes will reduce the capacity of this segment by at least
fifty percent. Therefore, the only possible mitigation to retain capacity on D Street is to
eliminate on-street parking and provide additional traffic lanes. Parking would need to be
removed on D Street between Frances Street and Second Street.                  This would not
completely mitigate Alternative 9's impacts, as the conflicting movements would
continue to exist and vehicle delay would remain. However, removing parking would
help to reduce queue lengths on D Street and would allow for easier turns onto D Street
from side streets and driveways. The removal of parking on D Street was assumed for
the analysis.
        The modifications to driveways at the Arco gas station on the southwest corner of
Second Street/D Street will be necessary if D Street is to be opened to two-way traffic,
since there are expected to be very few opportunities to turn out of the gas station to D
Street at most times of the day. Changes may negatively affect the business of this gas
station due to further limited on-site circulation. The gas station traffic would also
spillover to Second Street and D Street. The proposed changes could be any or, a
combination of the following--
             ·   One-way entry and exit
             ·   Turning restrictions on D Street
             ·   Closure of driveways on D Street

City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 122
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Section 3.15: ALTERNATIVE 10

Convert D Street to two-way between First Street and Second Street. Install all-way
stop control at the First Street/C Street intersection.

Summary of AM Peak Hour Conditions

        The pattern of traffic flow would change in the northern part of the neighborhood
with some impacts on interior neighborhood streets and on the City's east-west arterials.

        Conversion of D Street to two-way between First Street and Second Street would
provide a more direct access to Second Street.

        Drivers at the westbound approach at First Street/D Street intersection would
experience about 14 additional seconds of delay, on average, as they would have to wait
for a gap in uncontrolled traffic on two-way D Street. Additionally, pedestrian crossing
could become more challenging at this intersection due to elimination of the stop control
for southbound left-turn traffic.




 Diversions from northbound D Street               Northbound C Street (shown above)
 to other neighborhood streets would               traffic would increase gradually due
 start early, well ahead of the                    to diversion starting at San Rafael
 intersection of First Street/D Street.            Avenue, as traffic volume increased
 San Rafael Avenue at D Street is
 shown above

        Fewer right turns would occur to First Street from northbound D Street. As a
result, eastbound traffic volume on First Street at C Street would decrease by 240
vehicles per hour. Vehicles would either stay on D Street to reach Second Street, or

City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 123
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


divert early using other neighborhood Streets. The following table shows the projected
gradual increase in northbound volume on C Street due to the diversion--


                                                   Additional Northbound Vehicles
               Intersections
                                                       (during AM Peak hour)
       C Street and Octavia Street                                  23
        C Street and Taylor Street                                  27
       C Street and Treanor Street                                  49
         C Street and First Street                                  57

        The all-way stop control would assign right-of-way to all movements, which
would reduce confusion. It would require all vehicles to reduce speed and stop before
proceeding. A new crosswalk would be installed on the west side of the intersection.

        The Second Street/D Street intersection would be a conflict point due to
conflicting northbound right-turn (approximately 290 vehicles per hour) and southbound
left-turn movements. Newly introduced northbound right turning vehicles from D Street
would create increased congestion, queuing and delay on Second Street. Heavy queuing
would also occur on southbound D Street between Second and Third Streets. It would




 Second Street/D Street (pictured                  Southbound queues on D Street
 above) would be a conflict point of               (pictured above) would occupy the
 northbound and southbound traffic.                entire block, preventing vehicle entry
 Southbound left-turning traffic would             from     westbound     Third    Street
 have to find adequate gaps in the                 Operations. Pictured above is the
 northbound right-turning traffic                  southbound queue on D Street viewed
 stream & would experience longer                  from Third Street
 delay and queue build-up

City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 124
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


cause congestion on the east-west arterials, particularly Third Street, because drivers on
this arterial would be unable to turn left onto D Street due to vehicle stacking over the
entire length of the block. As a result, the average queue on westbound Third Street at D
Street would spillover the entire length of the block (an increase of 12 passenger vehicles
on average). The average delay at Third Street/D Street would increase by more than a
minute on the westbound approach to this intersection under baseline conditions. The far
left lane of Third Street would be most affected. Congestion in this lane will create
friction on the other lanes of Third Street, meaning that there will be more lane changes,
leading to congestion in other lanes of Third Street.

        Frances Street and other neighborhood side street would experience increased
volume. With high volume in the network, the eastbound queue would occupy the entire
block and delay would also increase. Entering vehicles would divert to other routes such
as E Street and Marin Street.




 Queues on eastbound Frances Street                Pictured above is Ross Street at D
 (pictured above) would increase;                  Street. Side street traffic would be
 some traffic may also overflow to E               affected due to diversions
 Street and Marin Street

Summary of PM Peak Hour Conditions

        The traffic flow pattern would change noticeably in the northern part of the
neighborhood with impacts on interior neighborhood streets and on the City's east-west
arterials.



City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 125
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        The majority of northbound vehicles on D Street would either stay on D Street to
reach Second Street due to direct access, or would divert to northbound C Street (mainly)
through side streets in the neighborhood. The current trend of a heavy right-turning
movement onto First Street from D Street would be replaced by fewer right turns and
early diversion via side streets. The eastbound traffic volume on First Street at C Street
would decrease by 403 vehicles per hour.

        Diversions of northbound traffic from D Street to C Street via neighborhood side
streets would be noticeable. The following table shows the projected increase in the
northbound C Street volume--


                                                   Additional Northbound Vehicles
               Intersections
                                                        (during PM Peak hour)
        C Street and Octavia Street                                 41
        C Street and Taylor Street                                  88
        C Street and Treanor Street                                128
         C Street and First Street                                 132

        Diverted traffic would also use interior neighborhood streets such as Ross Street,
Marin Street, etc. Some diversion would be seen at B Street, Woodland Avenue and
Albert Park Lane.        The diversion would lead to increased congestion and delay at
neighborhood streets and intersections.

        An all-way stop control would be installed at the First Street/C Street intersection.
Despite fewer eastbound vehicles, traffic volumes on each of the three approaches would
lean toward the volumes warranted for all-way stop control as northbound volume
increases. Volume warrants required for the installation of an all-way stop control are
likely to be met for future volume scenarios.

        The combined effect of the three changes (all-way stop, fewer eastbound vehicles
and higher number of northbound vehicles) is expected make the intersection operate
acceptably. The all-way stop control would require vehicles to reduce speed and then
stop at this intersection before proceeding.         Therefore, the average wait time for
northbound and westbound vehicles would decrease compared to existing conditions

City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 126
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


where they have to stop and wait for a gap in the uncontrolled eastbound traffic flow.
Also under existing conditions, the maximum length of the queue on eastbound First
Street at C Street reaches up to First Street/D Street. Due to decreased eastbound traffic
volume, this queue would diminish and delay of eastbound vehicles would also reduce.

        Similar to the AM peak hour situation but with greater intensity, the Second
Street/D Street intersection would now be a conflict point for over 330 northbound right-
turning vehicles with about 180 southbound left-turning vehicles. Due to this high
volume of oncoming northbound traffic, the average delay for each southbound vehicle
would increase by a minute during the PM peak hour. As a consequence of longer delay,
the southbound queue on D Street would increase and it would occupy the entire length
of the block from Second Street to Third Street. Furthermore, westbound vehicles on
Third Street that would be waiting to turn left on D Street would not be able to do so.
The far left lane on Third Street would back up and add to the friction in the system. The
delay for westbound Third Street would also increase on average by 30 seconds per
vehicle during the PM peak hour. Congestion, delay and queuing would increase at the
upstream intersections of Third Street as well.

        The existing crosswalk at Second Street on the east side of D Street would have to
be removed to minimize pedestrian-vehicular conflicts. We analyzed the possibility of
providing modification of this signal by adding a northbound right-turn arrow, which
may help in dissipating the northbound right-turning traffic faster. However, favoring
northbound right-turning traffic would penalize southbound left-turn and eastbound
through movements. Also, northbound right-turning traffic would have the right-of-way
over southbound left-turning traffic anyway. Hence, provision of the northbound right-
turn arrow would not make a significant difference in the intersection operations. The
newly introduced right-turn volume from northbound D Street would create increased
congestion, queuing and delay on Second Street. Cumulative impact of the conditions
described above would force adjacent intersections and arterials to operate near capacity.

        Not all northbound vehicles would be able to turn right on Second Street due to
heavy queuing on Second Street between D Street and A Street. These vehicles would


City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 127
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


continue to divert to C Street via First Street. One-way C Street (between First Street and
Second Street) would help to dissipate traffic faster as it has more capacity than a two-
way street of the same width.

        The northbound vehicle queue on D Street would often extend to Bayview Street.
One cause of this would be that northbound left-turning vehicles would wait for a gap in
oncoming southbound traffic stream that would block the through movement. Turn
pockets would have to be provided at certain locations to eliminate the possibility of
stacking of through vehicles.       For example, left-turn pocket would be required for
northbound traffic at First Street, Frances Street, etc.

Common Observations

        Queuing on D Street would affect turning movements at side streets. Analysis
showed that Frances Street would have operational issues. With increasing volume in the
network, the eastbound queue would frequently occupy the entire length of Frances
Street. Vehicles would divert to E Street, Marin Street, etc. and Frances Street would be
accessed by the northbound left-turning traffic of D Street as well. However, due to the
narrow road width and on-street parking spaces being filled to capacity, such vehicles
would prefer turning left on other side streets causing earlier diversions. Similar to side
streets, the vehicles exiting driveways onto D Street would experience longer delays as
fewer gaps would be present in the two-way traffic stream on D Street. Potentially more
red zones would be required at various intersections on D Street to improve the motorists'
line of sight to assist in decision-making. Accident potential could also increase as lack
of adequate gaps would lead the driver from side streets and driveways to take more
chances to enter the mainstream traffic.

        Turn pockets would be required as mitigation. However, the transition area
required for the installation of the turn pockets would prohibit vehicles leaving driveways
between approximately 200-feet south of Frances Street and Second Street to make a left
turn as the California Vehicle Code prohibits crossing double-double yellow lines.
Specific modifications to driveways at the Arco gas station and Kragen Auto Parts are
described below.

City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 128
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        Queuing would occur at the driveway of Arco gas station. Vehicles exiting the
Arco driveway would have to wait longer to find adequate gaps in the two-way traffic on
D Street. Also, left-turn entry from northbound D Street would be restricted in order to
reduce the blocking of through traffic along this portion of the roadway. This driveway
must only allow right-turn in and right-turn out.

        The one way parking lot of Kragen Auto Parts must change directions. Currently
the driveway is one way in from D Street, and one way out onto Second Street. This
must reverse to become one way in on Second Street and one way out on D Street.
Furthermore, the exit from the parking lot onto D Street must be restricted to allow a
right turn only. Internal modification to the parking lot (such as two-way parking) would
result in loss of parking spaces.

        More vehicles would be circulating in the vicinity of the neighborhood and this
would result in more congestion. As the circulation pattern would change from the
current condition, some conflicting turning movements in the vicinity would shift to other
locations creating diversions. Toward the end of the peak hours, flow of traffic would be
restricted as the volume in the network would be at its highest. Many intersections and
east-west arterials would operate at or near capacity but flow of traffic would not stop
completely. Turning movements from side streets and driveways would be very limited.

        The trend of the existing Average Daily Traffic (ADT) counts show that similar
traffic conditions would exist in the network during the noon lunch time peak hour and
the afternoon school dismissal peak hour as well. The conditions would progressively
worsen from midday to the PM peak hour. Traffic volume in the network may start
diminishing from 7:00 PM onward on a typical weekday. The benefit of the two-way D
Street would be more noticeable during nighttime until early morning; more specifically,
from 7:00 PM till 7:00 AM and over weekends.

        Under the General Plan 2020 scenario, due to increased traffic volume in the
network, all the above-mentioned conditions would worsen. In general, as the traffic
volume would increase, shifting of traffic would occur, volume of conflicting movements



City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 129
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


would increase, and vehicles would experience longer delays. A domino effect would be
observed at adjacent intersections and arterials outside the Gerstle Park network.

        Traffic would find the path of least resistance in the network. The City would
monitor the changes in the traffic flow pattern and driver behavior after installation of the
proposed changes and recommend further improvements, if necessary. More details are
presented in the `Possible Mitigation' section of this draft report.

        Diverted traffic may cause speeding problems in the neighborhood as drivers try
to make up lost time caused by increases in delay.            Neighborhood traffic calming
measures may be required in the future if applicable warrants, such as traffic volume,
accident history, and speed criteria, are satisfied due to diverted volumes.                  The
neighborhood traffic calming program currently is not funded by the City of San Rafael.

Advantages

    o Conversion of D Street to two-way would provide more convenient and direct
        access to Second Street for northbound D Street drivers during non-peak hours.
    o During AM and PM peak hours, the volume of eastbound vehicles on First Street
        at the C Street intersection would decrease.
    o All-way stop control would assign right-of-way at the First Street/C Street
        intersection and would reduce confusion.
    o The First Street/C Street intersection would be more pedestrian-friendly. Our
        design suggests installation of a new crosswalk on the west side of the
        intersection.
    o Approach delays would reduce marginally for westbound and northbound traffic
        at the First Street/C Street intersection.
    o Approach delays would marginally decrease for southbound traffic at the First
        Street/D Street intersection.




City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 130
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Disadvantages

    o Approach delay would increase for westbound First Street traffic at D Street.
    o Pedestrian crossing at First Street/D Street intersection would be more
        challenging as an additional movement (southbound left-turn) would be
        uncontrolled.
    o During the PM peak hour, traffic would divert from D Street when there is
        congestion and would instead use other neighborhood streets.                  Therefore,
        congestion on other neighborhood intersections would increase. For example,
        volume of northbound vehicles on C Street would steadily increase through the
        neighborhood intersections.
    o Consequently, delay would also increase at these intersections.
    o This diverted traffic may cause speeding problems to make up for lost time and
        traffic calming may be necessary to mitigate these effects.
    o Twenty-one (21) on-street parking spaces including one (1) yellow loading zone
        space would be lost on both sides of D Street between approximately 200 feet
        south of Frances Street and Second Street, as changes to lane geometry would be
        required.
    o The existing crosswalk on the east side of Second Street at its intersection with D
        Street would have to be removed.
    o To be consistent with the California Vehicle Code which prohibits crossing
        double-double yellow lines, the installation of turn pockets would prohibit left
        turns for vehicles leaving driveways between approximately 200 feet south of
        Frances Street and Second Street.
    o Queuing on Second Street, Third Street and Fourth Street is expected under
        baseline and General Plan 2020 conditions during the AM and PM peak hours
        (more frequently toward the end of the peak hours), but this would not be entirely
        due to the proposed changes.




City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 131
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Possible Mitigations

        Possible mitigations to minimize and/or eliminate the disadvantages of the
proposed changes to the network are discussed below.

        It was observed during the field visits that eastbound vehicles on First Street often
do not stay in their designated lane as they approach C Street, meaning they cut the turn
short. The installation of an all-way stop at this location is anticipated to reduce, if not
eliminate, the occurrence of this movement. However, if this movement does continue to
happen, the installation of a fifty foot (50') by four foot (4') raised median on the west
leg of First Street would need to be constructed. In order to accommodate the raised
median, removal of five (5) on-street parking spaces would be required. Under both
alternatives, eastbound First Street would continue to be a single lane approach in order
to further discourage left-turning drivers to cut their turns short. City staff would monitor
traffic flow pattern and driver behavior at this intersection after installation of the all-way
stop control and determine the necessity of the median.

        One solution to the southbound queuing on D Street, north of Second Street, may
be to re-time all the traffic signals in the vicinity including the downtown signals.
However, that will also have its consequences. Giving favor to D Street traffic would
improve traffic flow on this street but would likely mean higher delays at other arterials
and intersections.

        Conversion of D Street to two-way between First Street and Second Street
without any other changes to striping would reduce the capacity of this segment by half.
Therefore, the only possible mitigation to retain capacity on D Street is to eliminate on-
street parking and provide additional turn lanes as we have discussed earlier in this draft
report. This would be a challenging task and our design shows that it would require
removal of approximately 21 on-street parking spaces from both sides of D Street for the
segment starting approximately 200 feet south of Frances Street and Second Street,
including the removal of a yellow loading zone north of the First Street/D Street
intersection. Required striping for the transition areas would prohibit turning movements
from and into the driveways as we have discussed earlier in this draft report.

City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 132
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        Additionally, the drive up mail box, located on west side curb of D Street just
north of First street, would have to be removed, relocated or rotated to become a regular
mail box and not a drive-up.




City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 133
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Section 3.16: ALTERNATIVE 10 (with Modifications)

Changes in the Network

The turn restrictions are during AM and PM peak hours only and for following
locations and movements-

    ·   Northbound right-turn at D Street/Antonette Street intersection, and

    ·   Northbound left-turn at First Street/D Street, D Street/Frances Street, and D
        Street/Ross Street intersections.

These turn restrictions were analyzed for Alternative #10 condition, which is to convert
D Street to two-way between First Street and Second Street and to install all-way stop
control at First Street/C Street intersection. Turn restrictions were also analyzed for
existing network configuration with current traffic volumes.

Summary of Findings during AM and PM Peak Hours for both scenarios

        The turn restriction during the peak hours would only divert traffic from one
residential street to other residential streets in the neighborhood but it would not decrease
the total traffic volume in the overall network. A short discussion is presented here on
the effects of turn restrictions on northbound D Street. These effects would be in addition
to other observations for the preferred alternatives (presented in the previous meetings).
Due to heavier volume during PM peak hour, the diversion and its effects would be more
noticeable then compared to that during the AM peak hour.

        Restriction of northbound right turn from D Street on to Antonette Street would
essentially mean that no cut-through traffic going east from D to C Street would be
introduced at this short stretch of Antonette Street. So the turning traffic would seek
alternate routes within the neighborhood and would, most likely, turn right on to San
Rafael Avenue. Majority of these diverted vehicles would use C Street to travel north
after that, and a handful would actually have to travel around a block to reach their
destination on Antonette Street and its neighboring area (residents).

City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 134
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        This right-turn restriction would not impact the general traffic flow during the
AM peak hour because the number of diverted vehicles would be very low (8 vehicles
during the peak hour). However, during the PM peak hour, San Rafael Avenue would be
busier due to the diversion triggered by the right-turn restriction. Around 35 additional
vehicles are estimated to turn right on San Rafael Avenue from D Street instead of
turning right on Antonette Street.

        Traffic on other neighborhood streets west of D Street would increase due to
northbound left-turn restrictions at First, Frances and Ross Streets. About 190 vehicles
that would have turned left from northbound D Street on to First Street would be
prohibited to do so. Most likely these vehicles would turn left earlier on side-streets,
such as Bayview Street and San Rafael Avenue, and use Marin Street-E Street to reach
Third Street or, other destinations further up. Marin Street-E Street and other side-streets
are narrow and residential streets. Their capacity to carry heavy traffic is limited. The
proposed changes would cause congestion and delay at these locations. Also, some
vehicles may turn right from D Street and find other alternate routes to reach their
destinations. Turn restrictions would allow D Street traffic to flow without frequent
interruptions from Bayview Street to all the way up to Second Street, but it would
disperse the turning traffic all over the neighborhood. Quieter, residential neighborhood
streets would become busy during the peak hours, especially during the PM peak hour
due to heavier traffic volume in the network.

        The advantage of imposing the turn restrictions would be noticeable on the traffic
flow on D Street. Through traffic flow would not be interrupted by the left-turning traffic
Bayview Street up to Second Street. Additional left-turn lanes at these intersections that
were proposed in our earlier reports would not be necessary. On-street parking may
remain at these locations, excepting for some modification on D Street parking between
Frances and Second Streets.          First Street/D Street, D Street/Frances Street and D
Street/Ross Street intersections would operate better due to the elimination of northbound
left-turn volumes. Also, First, Frances and Ross Streets are narrow, residential streets
with on-street parking allowed. The left-turn restrictions would improve the operations
of these streets as well.

City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 135
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        On the other hand, more traffic would use Bayview Street and San Rafael Avenue
as left-turn would still be allowed at these intersections. Vehicles are more likely to
experience increased delay and congestion at these intersection compared to existing
condition and more so during the PM peak hour.

        Left-turn lanes would be necessary at Bayview Street and San Rafael Avenue to
accommodate larger volume of left-turning traffic. These left-turn lanes would store
turning traffic and ensure that northbound through traffic flow on D Street is minimally
impacted.     As a result there would be a loss of on-street parking near these two
intersections. Also, vehicles waiting to turn left to enter residential driveways from D
Street would still exist and block through traffic.

        Also, unaccustomed motorists with no prior information on the left-turn
restrictions at First, Frances and Ross Streets would have to travel north on D Street
eventually up to Third Street in order to turn left. They would have to travel longer
distance in a loop if their final destination is west of D Street in between Ross Street and
Third Street. Some drivers may choose to turn right and find other routes.

        Effects of the turn restrictions were also analyzed on existing network and current
traffic volumes. The results were similar for the AM peak hour. However, results of the
PM peak hour are different. Current traffic flow pattern indicates very heavy northbound
left-turn movements from D Street on to First Street (223 vehicles per hour). Restricting
this turning movement would shift the turning traffic either upstream or, downstream.
Motorists with no prior knowledge of the left-turn restriction at this intersection would be
forced to travel north. Majority of the travelers accustomed with the neighborhood road
network would, most likely, turn left earlier at Bayview Street or, San Rafael Avenue. A
few may also turn right from D Street on to other side streets to find alternate routes.




City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 3: Analysis of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                              Page 136
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Chapter 4: Comparison of Alternatives
The table on the following pages compares each of the alternatives which have been studied as
part of the Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study between the years of 2006 and
2008. The options which are still under consideration by the City and the Gerstle Park
Neighborhood Association (GPNA) are listed first. The remainder of the options are listed in
chronological order.

The table lists each alternative and compares the changes and impacts that would occur under the
existing traffic conditions (Existing/Baseline) and the 2020 traffic conditions and roadway
network as developed for the City of San Rafael's General Plan 2020 (GP2020). Five main items
were compared for each scenario during two peak periods (AM and PM) and include the
following:
        Operations: Changes to how the arterials and/or intersections in the Gerstle Park
        Neighborhood and adjacent areas would act. Items summarized under this category
        include any arterial or signalized intersection failures, other major arterial and
        intersection capacity changes, congestion increases and changes in the traffic patterns.
        Diversions: List of the alternate routes that vehicles are anticipated to take if additional
        queues and/or delay occur or turning restrictions are put into place.
        Queuing and Delay: Summary of the locations where it is anticipated that vehicular
        queues will form and locations where increases to delay are anticipated to occur.
        On-Street Parking: Any removal of on-street parking spaces which would be required due
        to changes in the roadway striping or the addition of intersection left turn pockets are
        summarized under this section. Also lists any changes to commercial parking lots that
        would be required.
        Safety: Summary of any changes that would improve pedestrian safety along the roadway
        network. Safety improvements include reduction in the number of vehicular-pedestrian
        conflict points at an intersection, and anticipated reduction in driver confusion at
        unsignalized intersection.

If any other changes or impacts for an alternative were seen, they are listed under a sixth category
entitled "Other".

                                         ABBREVIATIONS
          AWS         All way stop                              SB       Southbound

             EB       Eastbound                                  St      Street

           LOS        Level of Service                        TBD        To be determined

             NB       Northbound                               WB        Westbound




City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 4: Comparison of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                Page 137
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


                                        DEFINITIONS
        AM Peak Period         Non-Holiday weekday period between 7AM and 9AM.

                 Arterial      Classification used for roadways which serve as the principal
                               network for traffic flow. For purposes of this study, all streets
                               analyzed in the Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations
                               Study are considered arterials.
        Arterial Failure       Arterial level of service falls below the City of San Rafael
                               standard as required by the General Plan 2020.

       Existing/Baseline       Existing roadway conditions and traffic. Traffic counts were
                               collected in 2006.

                 GP2020        Future roadway conditions and traffic developed for use with the
                               City of San Rafael General Plan 2020.

    Intersection Failure       Intersection level of service falls below the City of San Rafael
                               standard as required by the General Plan 2020.

        Level of Service       Measure of the operational and congestion levels signifying
                               average delay (intersection) and approach delay (arterial). Delay
                               is converted to a letter classification ranging from `A' to `F'
                               where LOS A signifies the least amount of delay and LOS F
                               signifies maximum delay.

        PM Peak Period         Non-Holiday weekday period between 4PM and 6PM.




City of San Rafael                                              Chapter 4: Comparison of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                Page 138
                                                                                                Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study

                                                                                       Comparison of Gerstle Park Neighborhood Options
                                                                                      Existing/Baseline                                                                                           GP2020
           Neighborhood Option
                                                             AM Peak Period                                     PM Peak Period                                    AM Peak Period                                   PM Peak Period
 AUGUST 2008 OPTIONS (CURRENT)
                                               Operations: 3rd St/A St and 5th Ave/A St           Operations: 2nd St, A St, C St and E St arterial   Operations: 2nd St, 5th Ave, B St and C St      Operations: 3rd St/ A St intersection failure,
                                                  intersection failures; 2nd St and 5th Ave          failures                                           arterial failures                               2nd St, 3rd St, 4th St, A St, B St, C St and
              Existing Condition                  arterial failures                               Diversions: None                                   Diversions: None                                   E St arterial failures
                                               Diversions: None                                   Queuing and Delay: No change                       Queuing and Delay: No change                    Diversions: None
                  No Changes                   Queuing and Delay: No change                       On-Street Parking: No changes/removals             On-Street Parking: No changes/removals          Queuing and Delay: No change
                                               On-Street Parking: No changes/removals             Safety: No change                                  Safety: No change                               On-Street Parking: No changes/removals
                                               Safety: No change                                                                                                                                     Safety: No change
            Neighborhood Option 1              Operations: 2nd St/A St and 5th St/A St            Operations: 2nd St, 3rd St, A St, C St and E St    Operations: 2nd St, 5th Ave, B St and C St      Operations: 3rd St/A St intersection failure;
                                                  intersection failures; 2nd St and 5th Ave          arterial failures                                  arterial failures                               2nd St, 3rd St, 4th St, A St, B St, C St and
            Low Level Intervention
                                                  arterial failures                               Diversions: To Marin St and E St from D St;        Diversions: To Marin St and E St from D St         E St arterial failures
  Same (existing) street pattern               Diversions: To Marin St and E St from D St           More pronounced than during AM period            Queuing and Delay: Increase on NB D St due      Diversions: To Marin St and E St from D St;
  Northbound left-turn restrictions at D       Queuing and Delay: Increase on NB D St due         Queuing and Delay: Increase on NB D St due           to diversions. More pronounced than             more pronounced than during AM Period
  St/1st St and D St/Frances St during AM        to diversions                                      to diversions                                      during AM Period.                             Queuing and Delay: Increase on NB D St due
  and PM peak periods (Times TBD)              On-Street Parking: Removal of 2 spaces             On-Street Parking: Removal of 2 spaces             On-Street Parking: Removal of 2 spaces            to diversions; more pronounced than during
  Install median on eastbound 1st St at C St   Safety: Median on west leg of 1st St/C St          Safety: Median on west leg of 1st St/C St          Safety: Median on west leg of 1st St/C St         AM period
                                                  prohibits simultaneous EB double left turns       prohibits simultaneous EB double left turns        prohibits simultaneous EB double left         On-Street Parking: Removal of 2 spaces
                                                                                                                                                       turns                                         Safety: Median on west leg of 1st St/C St
                                                                                                                                                                                                        prohibits simultaneous EB double left turns
                                               Operations: 2nd St/A St, 5th St/A St               Operations: 2nd St, 3rd St, A St, C St and E St    Operations: 2nd St, 5th Ave, B St and C St      Operations: 3rd St/A St intersection failure;
                                                  intersection failures; 2nd St and 5th Ave          arterial failures; network operational             arterial failures; network operational          2nd St, 3rd St, 4th St, A St, B C St, C St
                                                  arterial failures                                  capacity limit reached (restricted movement        capacity limit reached (restricted              and E St arterial failures; network
                                               Diversions: To Marin St, E St and C St from D         throughout the neighborhood)                       movement throughout the neighborhood            operational capacity limit reached
                                                 St. Additional vehicles also seen on             Diversions: To Marin St, E St and C St from D      Diversions: To Marin St, E St and C St from        (restricted movement throughout the
                                                 remainder of neighborhood Streets.                 St; additional vehicles also seen on               D St; additional vehicles also seen on           neighborhood)
                                               Queuing and Delay: Increase on SB D St               remainder of neighborhood streets; more            remainder of neighborhood streets             Diversions: To Marin St, E St and C St from D
            Neighborhood Option 2
                                                 between 2nd St & 3rd St due to new conflict        pronounced than during AM period                 Queuing and Delay: Increase on SB D St            St; additional vehicles also seen on
          Medium Level Intervention              point at 2nd St/D St intersection, EB 2nd St     Queuing and Delay: Increase on SB D St               between 2nd St and 3rd St due to new            remainder of neighborhood streets; more
                                                 due to D St spill-over, WB 3rd St due to D         between 2nd St & 3rd St due to new conflict        conflict point at 2nd St/D St intersection,     pronounced than during AM period
  Convert D St to 2-way between 1st St
                                                 St spill-over and NB D St due to diversions        point at 2nd St/D St intersection, EB 2nd St       EB 2nd St due to D St spill-over, WB 3rd      Queuing and Delay: Increase on SB D St
  and 2nd St
                                               On-Street Parking: Removal of 9 spaces;              due to D St spill-over, WB 3rd St due to D         St due to D St spill-over and NB D St due       between 2nd St & 3rd St due to new
  Install all-way stop at 1st St/C St
                                                 modifications to commercial driveways              St spill-over and NB D St due to diversions;       to diversions                                   conflict point at 2nd St/D St intersection,
  Northbound left-turn restrictions at D
                                               Safety: Pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St             more pronounced than during AM period;           On-Street Parking: Removal of 9 spaces,           EB 2nd St due to D St spill-over, WB 3rd
  St/1st St and D St/Frances St during AM
                                                 increases; removal of crosswalk on east leg        will block/limit access from side streets and      modifications to commercial driveways           St due to D St spill-over and NB D St due
  and PM peak periods (Times TBD)
                                                 of 2nd St/D St intersection                        driveways                                        Safety: Pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St          to diversions; will block/limit access; more
                                                                                                  On-Street Parking: Removal of 9 spaces;              increases; removal of crosswalk on east         pronounced than during AM period
                                                                                                    modifications to commercial driveways              leg of 2nd St/D St intersection               On-Street Parking: Removal of 9 spaces,
                                                                                                  Safety: Pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St                                                             modifications to commercial driveways
                                                                                                     increases; removal of crosswalk on east leg                                                     Safety: Pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St
                                                                                                     of 2nd St/D St intersection                                                                        increases; removal of crosswalk on east leg
                                                                                                                                                                                                        of 2nd St/D St intersection




City of San Rafael                                                                                                                                                                                                Chapter 4: Comparison of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Page 139
                                                                                                   Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


                                                                                       Existing/Baseline                                                                                           GP2020
           Neighborhood Option
                                        AM Peak Period                                                             PM Peak Period                                    AM Peak Period                                   PM Peak Period
 AUGUST 2008 OPTIONS (CURRENT) (CONTINUED)
                                                Operations: 5th Ave/A St intersection failure;       Operations: 2nd St, 3rd St, A St, C St and E St    Operations: 2nd St, 5th Ave, B St and C St       Operations: 2nd St, 3rd St, A St, B St, C St
                                                   2nd St and 5th Ave arterial failures                 arterial failures                                  arterial failures                                and E St arterial failures
                                                Diversions: Some diversion to neighborhood           Diversions: Some diversion to neighborhood         Diversions: Some diversion to neighborhood       Diversions: Some to neighborhood side streets
                                                  side streets to avoid two new traffic signals        side streets to avoid two new traffic signals;     side streets to avoid two new traffic            to avoid new traffic signals; could
                                                Queuing and Delay: Formation and dissipation           number could potentially be higher due to          signals; number could potentially be             potentially be higher due to greater volume
                                                  patterns effectively controlled; signals to be       higher volume during PM peak hour                  higher due to greater volume under               under GP2020 and PM peak period
                                                  coordinated with downtown system for               Queuing and Delay: Formation and dissipation         GP2020                                         Queuing and Delay: Formation and dissipation
                                                  maximum efficiency                                   patterns effectively controlled; signals to be   Queuing and Delay: Formation and                   patterns effectively controlled; longer than
            Neighborhood Option3                On-Street Parking: Removal of 2 spaces; 12             coordinated with downtown system for               dissipation patterns effectively controlled;     in the AM period due to increase in vehicles
                                                  additional spaces may also be removed                maximum efficiency                                 delay and queues at signals will be longer       during PM period; signals to be coordinated
            High Level Intervention
                                                  depending on need for left turn pockets            On-Street Parking: Removal of 2 spaces; 12           than in the AM period due to increase in         with downtown system for maximum
    Same (existing) street pattern                (TBD during signal designs)                          additional spaces may also be removed              vehicles during PM period; signals to be         efficiency
    Install traffic signal at 1st St/C St       Safety: Median on west leg of 1st St/C St              depending on need for left turn pockets            coordinated with downtown system for           On-Street Parking: Removal of 2 spaces; 12
    Install traffic signal at 1st St/D St         prohibits simultaneous EB double left turns;         (TBD during signal designs)                        maximum efficiency                               additional spaces may also be removed
    Install median on eastbound First St at C     may require removal of crosswalk at 1st            Safety: Median on west leg of 1st St/C St          On-Street Parking: Removal of 2 spaces; 12         depending on need for left turn pockets
    St                                            St/D St                                              prohibits simultaneous EB double left turns;       additional spaces may also be removed            (TBD during signal designs)
                                                Other: Lights and signals may cause glare in           may require removal of crosswalk at 1st            depending on need for left turn pockets        Safety: Median on west leg of 1st St/C St
                                                   adjacent residences                                 St/D St                                            (TBD during signal designs)                      prohibits simultaneous EB double left turns;
                                                                                                     Other: Lights and signals may cause glare in       Safety: Median on west leg of 1st St/C St          may require removal of crosswalk at 1st
                                                                                                        adjacent residences                               prohibits simultaneous EB double left            St/D St
                                                                                                                                                          turns; may require removal of crosswalk at     Other: Lights and signals may cause glare in
                                                                                                                                                          1st St/D St                                       adjacent residences
                                                                                                                                                        Other: Lights and signals may cause glare in
                                                                                                                                                           adjacent residences
 MAY 2007 ALTERNATIVES STUDIED (Note - The following observations for May-2007 studies are based on traffic simulation software output & preliminary design)
                                                Operations: Some 2nd St intersection failures;       Operations: Several 2nd and 3rd St intersection    Operations: GP2020 volume will have              Operations: Similar to baseline PM peak hour;
                                                   3rd St arterial failure; localized congestion        failures; 2nd St, 3rd St and D St arterial         pronounced effects on intersections and          more 2nd & 3rd St intersections operate at
                                                   on SB D St in the downtown area and at 2nd           failures                                           arterials                                        capacity
                                                   St/C St and 1st St/C St                           Diversions: To C St and B St from D St via         Diversions: To C St and B St from D St via       Diversions: Diversions through C St more
                                                Diversions: To C St and B St from D St via             Bayview St and other local roads; various          Bayview St and other local roads; various        noticeable during PM peak hour
                    Option 1                      Bayview St and other local roads; various            other diversions present; more noticeable          other diversions present                       Queuing and Delay: Similar observations as
                                                  other diversions present                             than during the AM peak hour                     Queuing and Delay: Increase on SB D St             AM peak hour with greater intensity
  Convert D St to 2-way between 1st St          Queuing and Delay: Increase on SB D St               Queuing and Delay: Increase on SB D St               between 3rd St and 2nd St; also on WB          On-Street Parking: All on-street parking
  and 3rd St                                      between 3rd St and 2nd St; on WB 3rd St at           between 3rd St and 2nd St; on WB 3rd St at         3rd St at D St                                   spaces on D Street between 3rd St and
                                                  D St                                                 D St; more noticeable than during AM peak        On-Street Parking: All on-street parking           Frances St
                                                On-Street Parking: All on-street parking spaces      On-Street Parking: All on-street parking spaces      spaces on D St between 3rd St and Frances      Safety: Removal of crosswalk on east leg of
                                                  on D Street between 3rd St and Frances St            on D St between 3rd St and Frances St              St                                                2nd St/D St intersection
                                                Safety: Removal of crosswalk on east leg of          Safety: Removal of crosswalk on east leg of        Safety: Removal of crosswalk on east leg of
                                                   2nd St/D St intersection                             2nd St/D St intersection                           2nd St/D St intersection




City of San Rafael                                                                                                                                                                                                   Chapter 4: Comparison of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Page 140
                                                                                              Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


                                                                                  Existing/Baseline                                                                                           GP2020
          Neighborhood Option
                                                        AM Peak Period                                       PM Peak Period                          AM Peak Period                                              PM Peak Period
MAY 2007 ALTERNATIVES STUDIED (Note - The following observations for May-2007 studies are based on traffic simulation software output & preliminary design) (CONTINUED)
                                          Operations: EB 1st St volume decreases and           Operations: EB 1st St volume decreases and         Operations: Similar to baseline AM peak         Operations: Similar to baseline PM peak hour
                                             NB 1st St volume increases at 1st St/C St            NB 1st volume increases at 1st St/C St             hour conditions with greater intensity due      with greater intensity due to higher GP2020
                                             intersection; operation of 1st St/C St               intersection; operation of 1st St/C St             to higher GP2020 volume                         volume
                                             intersection acceptable; D St, 2nd St and 3rd        intersection acceptable; very poor operation    Diversions: Some diversion through              Diversions: Diversions through C St more
                                             St arterial failures                                 of all arterials                                  neighborhood streets, such as D St to           noticeable during PM peak hour
                                          Diversions: Some diversion through                   Diversions: Diversions through C St more             Bayview St to C St and/or B St                Queuing and Delay: Similar to baseline PM peak
                                            neighborhood streets, such as D St to                noticeable during PM peak hour                   Queuing and Delay: Increase on SB D St            hour conditions with greater intensity
                   Option 2                 Bayview St to C St and/or B St                     Queuing and Delay: Longer delay and queuing          between 3rd St and 2nd St; also on WB         On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street
 Convert D St to 2-way between 1st St     Queuing and Delay: Increase on SB D St                 on arterials including D St and 3rd St             3rd St at D St                                  parking spaces on D Street between 3rd St
 and 3rd St                                 between 3rd St and 2nd St; also increase on        On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street        On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street       and Frances St
 Install all-way stop at 1st St/C St        WB 3rd St at D St and on NB D Street south           parking spaces on D St between 3rd St and          parking spaces on D St between 3rd St and     Safety: Pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St increases;
                                            of 2nd St                                            Frances St                                         Frances St                                       removal of crosswalk on east leg of 2nd St/D
                                          On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street          Safety: Pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St           Safety: Pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St           St intersection
                                            parking spaces on D St between 3rd St and             increases; removal of crosswalk on east leg        increases; removal of crosswalk on east
                                            Frances St                                            of 2nd St/D St intersection                        leg of 2nd St/D St intersection
                                          Safety: Pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St
                                             increases; removal of crosswalk on east leg
                                             of 2nd St/D St intersection
                                          Operations: Performs relatively well; fewer          Operations: Performs relatively well; 3rd St/A     Operations: Similar to baseline AM peak         Operations: Similar to baseline PM peak hour
                                             intersection and arterial failures than Option       St and 4th St/A St intersection failures; 3rd      hour conditions with greater intensity due      conditions with greater intensity due to higher
                                             2                                                    St arterial failure                                to higher GP2020 volume                         GP2020 volume
                                          Diversions: Some diversion through                   Diversions: Diversions through C St more           Diversions: Some diversion through              Diversions: Diversions through C St more
                                            neighborhood streets such as D St to                 noticeable during the PM peak hour                 neighborhood streets such as D St to            noticeable during PM peak hour
                   Option 3                 Bayview St to C St and/or B St                     Queuing and Delay: Similar to AM peak hour           Bayview St to C St and/or B St                Queuing and Delay: Similar to baseline PM peak
                                          Queuing and Delay: Increase on SB D St                 condition with greater intensity due to          Queuing and Delay: Increase on SB D St            hour condition with greater intensity due to
 Convert D St to 2-way between 1st St       between 4th St and 2nd St; also on WB 3rd            higher volume during PM peak hour                  between 3rd St and 2nd St; also on WB           higher traffic volumes
 and 2nd St                                 St at D St                                         On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street          3rd St at D St                                On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street
                                          On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street            parking spaces on D St between 2nd St and        On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street       parking spaces on D St between 2nd St and
                                            parking spaces on D St between 2nd St and            Frances St                                         parking spaces on D St between 2nd St &         Frances St
                                            Frances St                                         Safety: Removal of crosswalk on east leg of          Frances St                                    Safety: Removal of crosswalk on east leg of 2nd
                                          Safety: Removal of crosswalk on east leg of             2nd/D St intersection                           Safety: Removal of crosswalk on east leg of        St/D St intersection
                                             2nd/D St intersection                                                                                   2nd/D St intersection
                                          Operations: NB traffic diverts off 1st St/D St       Operations: 3rd St/A St intersection failure;      Operations: Similar to baseline AM peak         Operations: Similar to baseline PM peak hour
                                             intersection                                         3rd St arterial failure                            hour conditions with greater intensity          operations with greater intensity
                                          Diversions: Some diversion through                   Diversions: Diversions through C St more           Diversions: From D St to Bayview St to C St     Diversions: Diversions through C St more
                                            neighborhood streets such as D St to                 noticeable during PM peak hour                     and/or B St and other neighborhood Sts          noticeable during PM peak hour
                   Option 4                 Bayview St to C St and/or B St                     Queuing and Delay: Longer queues and delay         Queuing and Delay: Increase on SB D St          Queuing and Delay: Similar to baseline PM peak
                                          Queuing and Delay: Increase on SB D St                 at the arterials and intersections; more           between 3rd St and 2nd St; also on WB           hour condition with greater intensity due to
 Convert D St to 2-way between 1st St       between 3rd St and 2nd St; also on WB 3rd            friction in the system due to AWS at the           3rd St at D St; NB D St queue through the       higher GP2020 volumes
 and 2nd St                                 St at D St                                           two intersections                                  neighborhood                                  On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street
 Install all-way stop at 1st St/C St      On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street          On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street        On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street       parking spaces on D St between 2nd St and
 Install all-way stop at 1st St/D St        parking spaces on D St between 2nd St &              parking spaces on D St between 2nd St and          parking spaces on D St between 2nd St           Frances St
                                            Frances St                                           Frances St                                         and Frances St                                Safety: Pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St and 1st/D
                                          Safety: Pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St and         Safety: Pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St and       Safety: Pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St and       St increases; removal of crosswalk on east leg
                                             1st/D St increases; removal of crosswalk on          1st/D St increases; removal of crosswalk on        1st/D St increases; removal of crosswalk        of 2nd St/D St intersection
                                             east leg of 2nd St/D St intersection                 east leg of 2nd St/D St intersection               on east leg of 2nd St/D St intersection
City of San Rafael                                                                                                                                                                                              Chapter 4: Comparison of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                                                                                                                                                                Page 141
                                                                                               Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study

                                                                                   Existing/Baseline                                                                                            GP2020
          Neighborhood Option
                                          AM Peak Period                              PM Peak Period                              AM Peak Period                        PM Peak Period
MAY 2007 ALTERNATIVES STUDIED (Note - The following observations for May-2007 studies are based on traffic simulation software output & preliminary design) (CONTINUED)
                                            Operations: Improvement localized at 1st St/C       Operations: Similar flow pattern to baseline       Operations: Traffic flow pattern similar to      Operations: Traffic flow pattern similar to
                                               St as EB 1st St volume is virtually zero;           AM peak hour with greater intensity; 3rd           baseline AM peak hour; poor operations           baseline PM peak hour condition; poor
                                               several neighborhood intersections on D St          St/A St operates near capacity                     under GP2020 traffic volumes                     operations under GP2020 traffic volumes
                                               experience greater delay                         Diversions: More diversions off of D St            Diversions: More diversions through              Diversions: More diversions through
                   Option 5                 Diversions: To other north/south arterials via        through various side streets                       neighborhood under higher GP2020 traffic         neighborhood under higher GP2020 traffic
 Convert D St to 2-way between 1st St         various local streets including Bayview,          Queuing and Delay: More queuing and delay            volume                                           volume
 and 2nd St                                   Ross, Taylor, etc.                                  due to changed street pattern (D St & 1st St)    Queuing and Delay: Increase on SB D St           Queuing and Delay: Similar to baseline PM peak
 Eliminate 1st St link between C St and D   Queuing and Delay: NB D St queue through the          and diversions; similar observations to AM         between 3rd St and 2nd St; also on WB            hour condition with greater intensity due to
 St (1st St between C St and D St will be     neighborhood; also on SB D St between 3rd           peak hour with greater intensity due to            3rd St at D St                                   higher GP2020 traffic volumes
 closed to through traffic and will be        St and 2nd St; and on WB 3rd St at D St             higher traffic volume during PM peak hour        On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street      On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street
 accessible to local traffic only)          On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street         On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street          parking spaces on D St between 2nd St &          parking spaces on D St between 2nd St and
                                              parking spaces on D Street between 2nd St           parking spaces on D Street between 2nd St          Frances St                                       Frances St
                                              and Frances St                                      and Frances St                                   Safety: Fewer conflict points at 1st St/C St     Safety: Fewer conflict points at 1st St/C St and
                                            Safety: Fewer conflict points at 1st St/C St and    Safety: Fewer conflict points at 1st St/C St and      and 1st St/D St intersections                    1st St/D St intersections
                                               1st St/D St intersections                           1st St/D St intersections
                                            Operations: 5th Ave/A St intersection failure;      Operations: 2nd St, 3rd St, A St, C St and E St    Operations: 2nd St, 5th Ave, B St and C St       Operations: 2nd St, 3rd St, A St, B St, C St and
                                               2nd St and 5th Ave arterial failures                arterial failures                                  arterial failures                                E St arterial failures
                                            Diversions: Some diversion to neighborhood          Diversions: Some diversion to neighborhood         Diversions: Some diversion to neighborhood       Diversions: Some diversion to neighborhood
                                              side streets to avoid two new traffic signals       side streets to avoid two new traffic signals;     side streets to avoid two new traffic            side streets to avoid two new traffic signals;
                                            Queuing and Delay: Formation and dissipation          number could potentially be higher due to          signals; number could potentially be             number could potentially be higher due to
                                              patterns effectively controlled; signals to be      higher volume during PM peak hour                  higher due to greater volume under               greater volume under GP2020 and PM peak
                                              coordinated with downtown system for              Queuing and Delay: Formation and dissipation         GP2020                                           period
                                              maximum efficiency                                  patterns effectively controlled; signals to be   Queuing and Delay: Formation and                 Queuing and Delay: Formation and dissipation
                                            On-Street Parking: 14 spaces may be removed           coordinated with downtown system for               dissipation patterns effectively controlled;     patterns effectively controlled; delay and
                   Option 6                   depending on need for left turn pockets             maximum efficiency                                 delay and queues at signals will be longer       queues at signals will be longer than in the
 Install traffic signal at 1st St/C St        (TBD during signal designs)                       On-Street Parking: 14 spaces may be removed          than in the AM period due to increase in         AM period due to increase in vehicles during
 Install traffic signal at 1st St/D St      Safety: May require removal of crosswalk at           depending on need for left turn pockets            vehicles during PM period; signals to be         PM period; signals to be coordinated with
                                               1st St/D St                                        (TBD during signal designs)                        coordinated with downtown system for             downtown system for maximum efficiency
                                            Other: Lights and signals may cause glare in        Safety: May require removal of crosswalk at          maximum efficiency                             On-Street Parking: 14 spaces may be removed
                                               adjacent residences                                 1st St/D St                                     On-Street Parking: 14 spaces may be                depending on need for left turn pockets (TBD
                                                                                                Other: Lights and signals may cause glare in         removed depending on need for left turn          during signal designs)
                                                                                                   adjacent residences                               pockets (TBD during signal designs)            Safety: May require removal of crosswalk at 1st
                                                                                                                                                   Safety: May require removal of crosswalk at         St/D St
                                                                                                                                                      1st St/D St                                   Other: Lights and signals may cause glare in
                                                                                                                                                   Other: Lights and signals may cause glare in        adjacent residences
                                                                                                                                                      adjacent residences
                                            Operations: In general, all intersections and       Operations: 2nd St arterial failure                Operations: Similar to baseline AM peak          Operations: 4th St/A St, 4th St/B St intersection
                                               arterials perform well                           Diversions: Diversions through C St more              hour observations with greater intensity         failures; B St, E St and 4th St arterial
                                            Diversions: Some through neighborhood streets         noticeable during PM peak hour                   Diversions: Some through neighborhood               failures; Otherwise, similar to baseline PM
                                              such as D St to Bayview St to C St and/or B       Queuing and Delay: EB 1st St traffic metered         streets such as D St to Bayview St to C St        peak hour
                   Option 7                   St                                                  at 1st St/C St intersection; causes increase       and/or B St                                    Diversions: Diversions through C St more
 Install all-way stop at 1st St/C St        Queuing and Delay: Occasional queuing on SB           in delay for EB vehicles                         Queuing and Delay: Increase on SB D St             noticeable during PM peak hour
 Install all-way stop at 1st St/D St          D St at 1st St/D St intersection                  On-Street Parking: No change                         between 3rd St and 2nd St; also on WB          Queuing and Delay: Similar to baseline PM peak
                                            On-Street Parking: No change                        Safety: Pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St and 1st     3rd St at D St                                   hour with greater intensity
                                            Safety: Pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St and 1st       St/D St increases                               On-Street Parking: No change                     On-Street Parking: No change
                                               St/D St increases                                                                                   Safety: Pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St and     Safety: Pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St and 1st
                                                                                                                                                      1st St/D St increases                            St/D St increases
City of San Rafael                                                                                                                                                                                                Chapter 4: Comparison of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Page 142
                                                                                          Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study

                                                                              Existing/Baseline                                                                                          GP2020
          Neighborhood Option
                                          AM Peak Period                              PM Peak Period                              AM Peak Period                        PM Peak Period
MAY 2007 ALTERNATIVES STUDIED (Note - The following observations for May-2007 studies are based on traffic simulation software output & preliminary design) (CONTINUED)
                                         Operations: Performs well                         Operations: Traffic on EB 1st St arrives in       Operations: Similar to baseline AM peak         Operations: Similar to baseline AM peak hour
                                         Diversions: Through neighborhood streets to          platoons at C St; reduction of confusion          hour condition with greater intensity due       condition with greater intensity due to higher
                                           avoid signal at 1st St/D St intersection           among drivers as AWS assigns right-of-            to higher GP2020 volume                         GP2020 volume; C St, E St, 2nd St, 3rd St
                                         Queuing and Delay: Minimal; some on                  way; C St, D St and 3rd St arterial failures   Diversions: Similar to baseline AM peak            and 5th Ave arterial failures
                                           east/west arterials including SB D St           Diversions: through neighborhood streets to         hour condition                                Diversions: Similar to baseline PM peak hour
                                           between 3rd St and 2nd St and on WB 3rd St        avoid signal at 1st St/D St intersection        Queuing and Delay: Similar to baseline AM         condition
                                           at D St                                         Queuing and Delay: Queue formation and              peak hour condition with greater intensity    Queuing and Delay: Similar to baseline PM peak
                   Option 8              On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street         dissipation pattern is controlled well by the     due to higher GP2020 volume                     hour condition with greater intensity due to
 Convert D St to 2-way between 1st St      parking spaces on D St between 2nd St and         new traffic signal at 1st St/D St; some         On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street       higher GP2020 volume
 and 2nd St                                Frances St                                        queuing on SB D St between 3rd St and 2nd         parking spaces on D St between 2nd St         On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street
 Install traffic signal at 1st St/D St   Safety: Pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St            St and on WB 3rd St at D St                       and Frances St                                  parking spaces on D St between 2nd St and
 Install all-way stop at 1st St/C St        increases; may require removal of crosswalk    On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street       Safety: Pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St          Frances St
                                            at 1st St/D St                                   parking spaces on D St between 2nd St and          increases; may require removal of            Safety: Pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St increases;
                                         Other: Lights and signals may cause glare in        Frances St                                         crosswalk at 1st St/D St                        may require removal of crosswalk at 1st St/D
                                            adjacent residences                            Safety: Pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St          Other: Lights/signals may cause glare in           St
                                                                                              increases; may require removal of                 adjacent residences                          Other: Lights/signals may cause glare in adjacent
                                                                                              crosswalk at 1st St/D St                                                                          residences
                                                                                           Other: Lights/signals may cause glare in
                                                                                              adjacent residences
JULY 2007 ALTERNATIVES STUDIED (Note - The following observations for July-2007 studies are based on traffic simulation software output & preliminary design)
                                         Operations: All intersections and arterials       Operations: East/west major arterials and         Operations: Similar to baseline AM peak         Operations: Similar to baseline PM peak hour
                                            perform well                                      north/south arterials do not perform well         hour conditions with greater intensity due      condition with greater intensity due to higher
                                         Diversions: Some through neighborhood streets        due to change in the street pattern; 6            to higher GP2020 volume; 3rd St arterial        GP2020 volume
                                           such as D St to Bayview St to C St and/or B        intersections fail                                failure                                      Diversions: Diversions through C St more
                                           St                                              Diversions: Similar to AM period observations     Diversions: Some diversion through                noticeable during PM peak hour
                                         Queuing and Delay: Queue formation and              although more noticeable due to higher            neighborhood streets such as D St to          Queuing and Delay: Similar to baseline PM peak
                                           dissipation pattern controlled well by the        traffic volumes in the PM period                  Bayview St to C St and/or B St                  hour observations with greater intensity
                                           new traffic signals; some queuing on SB D       Queuing and Delay: Will occur on east/west        Queuing and Delay: Similar to baseline AM       On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street
                                           St between 3rd St and 2nd St and on WB 3rd        major arterials and north/south arterials         peak hour observations                          parking spaces on D St between 2nd St and
                   Option 9                St at D St                                        north of Gerstle Park; some queuing on SB       On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street       Frances St; may also require removal of 14
                                         On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street         D St between 3rd St and 2nd St and on WB          parking spaces on D St between 2nd St           additional spaces depending on the need for
 Convert D St to 2-way between 1st St      parking spaces on D St between 2nd St and         3rd St at D St; Queue formation and               and Frances St; may also require removal        left turn pockets (TBD during signal designs)
 and & 2nd St                              Frances St; may also require removal of 14        dissipation pattern controlled well by the        of 14 additional spaces depending on the      Safety: May require removal of crosswalk at 1st
 Install traffic signal at 1st St/C St     additional spaces depending on the need for       new traffic signals                               need for left turn pockets (TBD during          St/D St
 Install traffic signal at 1st St/D St     left turn pockets (TBD during signal            On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street         signal designs)                               Other: Lights and signals may cause glare in
                                           designs)                                          parking spaces on D St between 2nd St and       Safety: May require removal of crosswalk at        adjacent residences
                                         Safety: May require removal of crosswalk at         Frances St; may also require removal of 14        1st St/D St
                                           1st St/D St; lights/signals at 1st/D cause        additional spaces depending on the need for     Other: Lights and signals may cause glare in
                                           glare in adjacent residences                      left turn pockets (TBD during signal               adjacent residences
                                         Other: Lights and signals may cause glare in        designs)
                                            adjacent residences                            Safety: May require removal of crosswalk at
                                                                                             1st St/D St
                                                                                           Other: Lights and signals may cause glare in
                                                                                              adjacent residences




City of San Rafael                                                                                                                                                                                         Chapter 4: Comparison of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                                                                                                                                                           Page 143
                                                                                               Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


                                                                                    Existing/Baseline                                                                                            GP2020
           Neighborhood Option
                                            AM Peak Period                               PM Peak Period                             AM Peak Period                         PM Peak Period
 JULY 2007 ALTERNATIVES STUDIED (Note - The following observations for July-2007 studies are based on traffic simulation software output & preliminary design) (CONTINUED)
                                            Operations: Some intersections fail, localized       Operations: Fewer conflicting movements at         Operations: Similar to baseline AM peak            Operations: Similar to baseline PM peak hour
                                               congestion on SB D St between 2nd St and             1st St/D St intersection; additional               hour conditions with greater intensity             conditions with greater intensity under
                                               3rd St affecting 3rd St operations                   intersection and arterial failure compared to      under GP2020 volume                                GP2020 volume
                                            Diversions: From D St to Marin St and E St              existing condition                              Diversions: Through local streets such as D        Diversions: Same as PM peak hour with
                                            Queuing and Delay: Increase on SB D St               Diversions: From D St to neighborhood streets        St to C St and/or B St via Bayview St; also        greater intensity
                 Alternative A                between 3rd St and 2nd St; also on WB 3rd            both east and west of D St                         from D St to Marin St and E St                   Queuing and Delay: Similar to baseline PM
  Covert D St to 2-way between 1st St and     St at D St; longer delay at side streets such      Queuing and Delay: Increase on SB D St             Queuing and Delay: Similar to baseline AM            peak hour with greater intensity
  2nd St                                      as Frances St                                        between 3rd St and 2nd St; also on WB 3rd          peak hour with greater intensity                 On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street
  Northbound and southbound Left-turn       On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street            St at D St; longer delay at side streets such    On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street          parking spaces on D Street between 2nd St
  restrictions at 1st St/D St                 parking spaces on D Street between 2nd St            as Frances St                                      parking spaces on D St between 2nd St              and Frances St
                                              and Frances St                                     On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street          and Frances St                                   Safety: Fewer conflicting movements at 1st
                                            Safety: Fewer conflicting movements at 1st             parking spaces on D St between 2nd St and        Safety: Fewer conflicting movements at 1st            St/D St intersection due to turn restrictions
                                               St/D St intersection due to turn restrictions       Frances St                                          St/D St intersection due to turn restrictions
                                                                                                 Safety: Fewer conflicting movements at 1st
                                                                                                    St/D St intersection due to turn restrictions
                                            Operations: A few arterial and intersections         Operations: Few additional arterial and            Operations: Similar to baseline AM peak            Operations: Similar to baseline PM peak hour
                                               failures                                             intersections failures than AM Peak                hour condition with greater intensity due          condition with greater intensity due to
                                            Diversions: Some through neighborhood streets        Diversions: Same as AM peak hour with                 to GP2020 volume                                   GP2020 volume
                                              such as from D St to C St and/or B St; also          greater intensity                                Diversions: Some through local streets such        Diversions: Same as AM peak hour with
                 Alternative B                from D St to Marin St and E St                     Queuing and Delay: Increase on SB D St               as D St to C St and/or B St via Bayview            greater intensity
  Convert D St to 2-way between 1st St      Queuing and Delay: Increase on SB D St                 between 3rd St and 2nd St; also on WB 3rd          St; from D St to Marin St and E St               Queuing and Delay: Similar to baseline PM
  and 2nd St                                  between 3rd St and 2nd St; also on WB 3rd            St at D St; also at side streets such as         Queuing and Delay: Similar to baseline AM            peak hour condition with greater intensity
  Northbound Left-turn restriction at 1st     St at D St                                           Frances St                                         peak hour condition with greater intensity       On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street
  St/D St                                   On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street          On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street        On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street          parking spaces on D Street between 2nd St
                                              parking spaces on D Street between 2nd St            parking spaces on D Street between 2nd St          parking spaces on D Street between 2nd St          and Frances St
                                              and Frances St                                       and Frances St                                     and Frances St                                   Safety: Fewer conflicting movements at 1st
                                            Safety: Fewer conflicting movements at 1st           Safety: Fewer conflicting movements at 1st         Safety: Fewer conflicting movements at 1st            St/D St intersection due to turn restrictions
                                               St/D St intersection due to turn restrictions        St/D St intersection due to turn restrictions      St/D St intersection due to turn restrictions
                                            Operations: 1st St/C St operates acceptably          Operations: Similar to AM peak with greater        Operations: Similar to baseline AM peak            Operations: Similar to baseline PM peak hour
                                               under AWS control; more friction in the              intensity due to higher volume during PM           hour conditions with greater intensity             conditions with greater intensity under
                                               network due to AWS; limited access to/from           peak hour                                          under GP2020 volume                                GP2020 volume
                                               residential housing due to turn restrictions;     Diversions: Same as AM peak hour with              Diversions: Some through neighborhood              Diversions: Same as AM peak hour with
                                               some intersection and arterial failures             greater intensity                                  streets such as D St to C St and/or B St via       greater intensity
                                            Diversions: Some through neighborhood streets        Queuing and Delay: Similar to AM peak hour           Bayview St; also from D St to Marin St           Queuing and Delay: Similar to baseline PM
                 Alternative C                such as D St to C St and/or B St via Bayview         with greater intensity due to higher volume        and E St                                           peak hour condition with greater intensity
  Convert D St to 2-way between 1st St        St; also from D St to Marin St and E St              during PM peak hour                              Queuing and Delay: Similar to baseline AM          On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street
  and 2nd St                                Queuing and Delay: Increase on SB D St               On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street          peak hour condition with greater intensity         parking spaces on D Street between 2nd St
  Northbound and southbound left-turn         between 3rd St and 2nd St; also on WB 3rd            parking spaces on D St between 2nd St and        On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street          and Frances St
  restrictions at 1st St/D St                 St at D St and on neighborhood side streets          Frances St                                         parking spaces on D Street between 2nd St        Safety: Fewer conflicting movements at 1st
  Install all-way stop at 1st St/C St         (Frances St, etc.)                                 Safety: Fewer conflicting movements at 1st           and Frances St                                      St/D St due to left-turn restrictions;
                                            On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street             St/D St due to left-turn restrictions;          Safety: Fewer conflicting movements at 1st            pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St increases
                                              parking spaces on D St between 2nd St and             pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St increases         St/D St due to left-turn restrictions;
                                              Frances St                                                                                               pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St increases
                                            Safety: Fewer conflicting movements at 1st
                                               St/D St due to left-turn restrictions;
                                               pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St increases
City of San Rafael                                                                                                                                                                                                  Chapter 4: Comparison of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Page 144
                                                                                                Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study

                                                                                    Existing/Baseline                                                                                              GP2020
           Neighborhood Option
                                            AM Peak Period                               PM Peak Period                             AM Peak Period                         PM Peak Period
 JULY 2007 ALTERNATIVES STUDIED (Note - The following observations for July-2007 studies are based on traffic simulation software output & preliminary design) (CONTINUED)
                                            Operations: 1st St/C St operates acceptably           Operations: Similar to AM peak with greater         Operations: Similar to baseline AM peak            Operations: Similar to baseline PM peak hour
                                               under AWS control; more friction in the               intensity due to higher volume during PM            hour condition with greater intensity due          condition with greater intensity due to
                                               network due to AWS; fewer conflicting                 peak hour                                           to GP2020 volume                                   GP2020 volume
                                               movements at 1st St/D St; limited access to        Diversions: Same as AM peak hour with               Diversions: Some diversion through                 Diversions: Same as AM peak hour with
                                               residential housing due to turn restrictions;        greater intensity                                   neighborhood streets such as D St to               greater intensity
                                               some intersection and arterial failures            Queuing and Delay: Similar to AM peak hour            Bayview St to C St and/or B St; also from        Queuing and Delay: Similar to baseline PM
                                            Diversions: Some diversion through                      condition with greater intensity due to             D St to Marin St and E St                          peak hour condition with greater intensity
                 Alternative D                neighborhood streets such as D St to                  higher volume during the PM peak hour             Queuing and Delay: Similar to baseline AM          On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street
  Convert D St to 2-way between 1st St        Bayview St to C St and/or B St; also from D         On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street           peak hour condition with greater intensity         parking spaces on D St between 2nd St and
  and 2nd St                                  St to Marin St and E St                               parking spaces on D St between 2nd St and         On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street          Frances St
  Northbound left-turn restriction at 1st   Queuing and Delay: Increase on SB D St                  Frances St                                          parking spaces on D St between 2nd St            Safety: Fewer conflicting movements at 1st
  St/D St                                     between 3rd St and 2nd St; also on WB 3rd           Safety: Fewer conflicting movements at 1st            and Frances St                                      St/D St intersection due to NB left-turn
  Install All-way stop at 1st St/C St         St at D St                                             St/D St intersection due to NB left-turn         Safety: Fewer conflicting movements at 1st            restrictions; pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St
                                            On-Street Parking: Removal of all on-street              restrictions; pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St      St/D St intersection due to NB left-turn           increases
                                              parking spaces on D St between 2nd St and              increases                                           restrictions; pedestrian safety at 1st St/C
                                              Frances St                                                                                                 St increases
                                            Safety: Fewer conflicting movements at 1st
                                               St/D St intersection due to NB left-turn
                                               restrictions; pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St
                                               increases
                                            Operations: 5th Ave/A St intersection failure;        Operations: 2nd St, 3rd St, A St, C St and E St     Operations: 2nd St, 5th Ave, B St and C St         Operations: 2nd St, 3rd St, A St, B St, C St
                                               2nd St and 5th Ave arterial failures                  arterial failures                                   arterial failures                                  and E St arterial failures
                                            Diversions: Some diversion to neighborhood            Diversions: Some diversion to neighborhood          Diversions: Some diversion to neighborhood         Diversions: Some diversion to neighborhood
                                               side streets to avoid two new traffic signals         side streets to avoid two new traffic signals;      side streets to avoid two new traffic signal;      side streets to avoid two new traffic signals;
                                            Queuing and Delay: Formation and dissipation             number may be higher due to greater traffic         number could potentially be higher due to          number could potentially be higher due to
                                               patterns effectively controlled; signals to be        volume during PM peak period                        greater volume under GP2020                        greater volume under GP2020
                                               coordinated with downtown system for               Queuing and Delay: Formation and dissipation        Queuing and Delay: Formation and                   Queuing and Delay: Formation and dissipation
                                               maximum efficiency                                    patterns effectively controlled; signals to be      dissipation patterns effectively controlled;       patterns effectively controlled; delay and
                 Alternative E              On-Street Parking: May require removal of up             coordinated with downtown system for                delay and queues at signals will be longer         queues at signals will be longer than in the
                                               to 14 spaces depending on need for left turn          maximum efficiency                                  than in the AM period due to increase in           AM period due to increase in vehicles
  Install traffic signal at 1st St/C St        pockets (TBD during signal designs)                On-Street Parking: May require removal of up           vehicles during PM period; signals to be           during PM period; signals to be coordinated
  Install traffic signal at 1st St/D St     Safety: May require removal of crosswalk at              to 14 spaces depending on need for left turn        coordinated with downtown system for               with downtown system for maximum
                                               1st St/D St                                           pockets (TBD during signal designs)                 maximum efficiency                                 efficiency
                                            Other: Lights/signals may cause glare in              Safety: May require removal of crosswalk at         On-Street Parking: May require removal of          On-Street Parking: May require removal of up
                                            adjacent residences                                      1st St/D St                                         up to 14 spaces depending on need for left         to 14 spaces depending on need for left turn
                                                                                                  Other: Lights/signals may cause glare in               turn pockets (TBD during signal designs)           pockets (TBD during signal designs)
                                                                                                  adjacent residences                                 Safety: May require removal of crosswalk at        Safety: May require removal of crosswalk at
                                                                                                                                                         1st St/D St                                        1st St/D St
                                                                                                                                                      Other: Lights/signals may cause glare in           Other: Lights/signals may cause glare in
                                                                                                                                                      adjacent residences                                adjacent residences




City of San Rafael                                                                                                                                                                                                     Chapter 4: Comparison of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Page 145
                                                                                                Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


                                                                                    Existing/Baseline                                                                                         GP2020
           Neighborhood Option
                                                            AM Peak Period                                     PM Peak Period                                   AM Peak Period                                   PM Peak Period
 APRIL 2008 ALTERNATIVES STUDIED
                                              Operations: 2nd St/A St and 5th Ave/A St            Operations: 2nd St, 3rd St, A St, C St, D St     Operations: 2nd St, 5th Ave, B St, C St, D St   Operations: 3rd St/A St intersection failure,
                                                 intersection failures; 2nd St, 5th Ave and D        and E St arterial failures; network              and E St arterial failures; network             2nd St, 3rd St, 4th St, A St, B St, C St, D St
                                                 St arterial failures                                operational capacity limit reached               operational capacity limit reached              and E St arterial failures; network
                                              Diversions: To Marin St and E St due to                (restricted movement throughout the              (restricted movement throughout the             operational capacity limit reached
                                                increase in delay on D St                            neighborhood)                                    neighborhood)                                   (restricted movement throughout the
                                              Queuing and Delay: Increase on SB D St              Diversions: To Marin St, C St and E St C St      Diversions: To Marin St and E St due to            neighborhood)
                                                between 2nd St & 3rd St due to new conflict         due to increase in delay on D St                 increase in delay on D St; more               Diversions: To Marin St, C St and E St due to
                                                point at 2nd St/D St intersection, EB 2nd St      Queuing and Delay: Increase on SB D St             pronounced than during the AM period            increase in delay on D St; more pronounced
                                                due to D St spill-over, WB 3rd St due to D          between 2nd St & 3rd St due to new conflict    Queuing and Delay: Increase on SB D St            than during the AM period
                   Option 10                    St spill-over and NB D St due to signal at          point at 2nd St/D St intersection, EB 2nd St     between 2nd St & 3rd St due to new            Queuing and Delay: Increase on SB D St
                                                2nd St/D St; striping change will restrict          due to D St spill-over, WB 3rd St due to D       conflict point at 2nd St/D St intersection,     between 2nd St & 3rd St due to new
  Convert D St to 2-way between 1st St          access from side streets and driveways              St spill-over and NB D St due to signal at       EB 2nd St due to D St spill-over, WB 3rd        conflict point at 2nd St/D St intersection,
  and 2nd St                                  On-Street Parking: Removal of 21 spaces;              2nd St/D St; larger than during AM period;       St due to D St spill-over and NB D St due       EB 2nd St due to D St spill-over, WB 3rd
  Install all-way stop at 1st St/C St           modifications to commercial driveways               striping change will restrict access from        to signal at 2nd St/D St; striping change       St due to D St spill-over and NB D St due
                                              Safety: Pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St              side streets and driveways                       will restrict access from side streets and      to signal at 2nd St/D St; more pronounced
                                                 increases; removal of crosswalk on east leg      On-Street Parking: Removal of 21 spaces;           driveways                                       than during AM period; striping change will
                                                 of 2nd St/D St intersection                        modifications to commercial driveways          On-Street Parking: Removal of 21 spaces;          restrict access from side streets and
                                                                                                  Safety: Pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St           modifications to commercial driveways           driveways
                                                                                                     increases; removal of crosswalk on east leg   Safety: Pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St        On-Street Parking: Removal of 21 spaces;
                                                                                                     of 2nd St/D St intersection                      increases; removal of crosswalk on east        modifications to commercial driveways
                                                                                                                                                      leg of 2nd St/D St intersection              Safety: Pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St
                                                                                                                                                                                                      increases; removal of crosswalk on east leg
                                                                                                                                                                                                      of 2nd St/D St intersection
 JUNE 2008 ALTERNATIVES STUDIED
                                              Operations: 2nd St/A St and 5th Ave/A St            Operations: 3rd St, A St, C St, D St and E St    Operations: 5th Ave, B St, C St, D St and E     Operations: 3rd St/A St intersection failure;
                                                 intersection failures; 2nd St 5th Ave, D St         arterial failures                                St arterial failures                            2nd St, 3rd St, A St, B St, C St, D St and E
                                                 and E St arterial failures                       Diversions: To Marin St and E St due to turn     Diversions: To Marin St and E St due to turn       St arterial failures
                                              Diversions: To Marin St and E St due to turn          restrictions; more pronounced than during        restrictions                                  Diversions: To Marin St and E St due to turn
                   Option 11                    restrictions                                        AM period                                      Queuing and Delay: Increase on SB D St            restrictions; more pronounced than during
  Convert D St to 2-way between 1st St        Queuing and Delay: Increase on SB D St              Queuing and Delay: Increase on SB D St             between 2nd St & 3rd St due to new              AM period
  and 2nd St                                    between 2nd St & 3rd St due to new conflict         between 2nd St & 3rd St due to new conflict      conflict point at 2nd St/D St intersection,   Queuing and Delay:
  Install all-way stop at 1st St/C St           point at 2nd St/D St intersection, EB 2nd St        point at 2nd St/D St intersection, EB 2nd St     EB 2nd St due to D St spill-over, WB 3rd      On-Street Parking: Removal of 9 spaces;
  Northbound left-turn restrictions at 1st      due to D St spill-over, WB 3rd St due to D          due to D St spill-over, WB 3rd St due to D       St due to D St spill-over and NB D St due       modifications to commercial driveways
  St/D St, D St/Frances St and D St/Ross St     St spill-over and NB D St due to signal at          St spill-over and NB D St due to signal at       to signal at 2nd St/D St; will block/limit    Safety: Pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St
  Northbound right-turn restriction at D        2nd St/D St                                         2nd St/D St; larger than during AM period        access from side streets and driveways          increases; removal of crosswalk on east leg
  St/Antonette Ave                            On-Street Parking: Removal of 9 spaces;             On-Street Parking: Removal of 9 spaces;          On-Street Parking: Removal of 9 spaces;           of 2nd St/D St intersection
                                                modifications to commercial driveways               modifications to commercial driveways            modifications to commercial driveways
                                              Safety: Pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St            Safety: Pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St         Safety: Pedestrian safety at 1st St/C St
                                                 increases; removal of crosswalk on east leg         increases; removal of crosswalk on east leg      increases; removal of crosswalk on east
                                                 of 2nd St/D St intersection                         of 2nd St/D St intersection                      leg of 2nd St/D St intersection




City of San Rafael                                                                                                                                                                                              Chapter 4: Comparison of Alternatives
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                                                                                                                                                                Page 146
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Chapter 5: Preferred Neighborhood Option

Based on the meetings with the GPNA representatives and consequent general
neighborhood meetings, staff concluded that the preferred option acceptable to the
neighborhood is Option #2 presented at the general neighborhood meetings in 2008. The
option is to convert D Street to two-way between First and Second Streets plus install all-
way stop control at First Street/C Street and restrict northbound left-turn movement at D
Street/First Street and D Street/Frances Street during AM and PM Peak Periods (7:00-
9:00 AM and 4:00-6:00 PM). This was also confirmed by the GPNA's website poll.
This option has fewer impacts than majority of other alternatives. Implementation of
option would involve the following:

    -   Conversion of D Street to two-way between First and Second Streets,
    -   Installation of all-way stop control at 1st Street/C Street intersection,
    -   Signing and striping modifications including removal of the eastern crosswalk
        from 2nd Street/D Street intersection,
    -   Removal of nine (9) on-street parking spaces including a loading zone from D
        Street between First and Second Streets (however five on-street parking spaces
        would be preserved in the block),
    -   Modification of traffic signal equipment and timing at Second Street/D Street
        intersection, and
    -   Potential reversal of driveway directions and parking lot circulation of Kragen
        Auto Parts store.


Staff analyzed the impacts of the preferred Option #2. Some advantages of the proposed
changes are presented below.

    1. The all-way stop control at the intersection of First Street and C Street would
       assign right-of-way, reduce confusion, increase safety and would become more
       pedestrian-friendly.

    2. Conversion of D Street to two-way would provide more convenient and direct
       access to Second Street for northbound D Street drivers especially during non-
       peak hours.

    3. During AM and PM peak hours, the volume of eastbound vehicles on First Street
       at C Street intersection would decrease due to the changed circulation pattern.

On the other hand, following are some adverse effects of the proposed changes:



City of San Rafael                                       Chapter 5: Preferred Neighborhood Option
Traffic Engineering Division                                                             Page 147
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


    1. The intersection of Second Street and D Street would be a new conflict point of
       southbound left-turning and newly introduced northbound right-turning
       movements, where southbound left-turning vehicles would have to yield. Queuing
       would occur on southbound D Street between Second and Third Streets during
       AM and PM peak hours. Occasionally the queue would spill over the block length
       and cause queuing on the far left lane of Third Street causing congestion, queuing
       and friction on Third Street between D Street and upstream intersections.

    2. Pedestrian crossing at the intersection of First Street and D Street would be more
       challenging as an additional movement (southbound left-turn) would be
       uncontrolled.

    3. Diversion would occur east of D Street through C, Bayview and Octavia Streets
       due to the proposed changes.

    4. Diversion would also occur west of D Street through San Rafael Avenue,
       Bayview and Ross Streets due to the changed circulation pattern and turn
       restrictions during AM and PM peak hours.

    5. The diverted traffic (see point 4 above) would wait for gaps in oncoming
       southbound traffic on D Street for negotiating the left-turn and impede the
       northbound through movement, causing congestion, delay and queuing in the
       neighborhood.

    6. Diverted traffic may cause speeding problems to make up for lost time and traffic
       calming may be necessary to mitigate these effects.

    7. Nine (9) on-street parking spaces including one (1) yellow loading zone would be
       removed from D Street between First and Second Streets.

    8. Longer queuing on Second Street, Third Street and Fourth Street is expected
       under baseline and General Plan 2020 conditions during the AM and PM peak
       hours (more frequently toward the end of the peak hours), however this would not
       be entirely due to the proposed changes.

Staff arranged for two (2) informational and feedback meetings/workshops on December
8, 2008 for the businesses located on D Street between Frances and Third Streets,
including the Kragen Auto Parts store and Arco gas station. There are one hundred and
thirty four (134) businesses in this area. Nader Mansourian, Nancy Mackle, Leslie
Morris and Suvra Chakrabarti represented the City staff. Three attendees were present at
the first meeting. There was no attendee for the second meeting. Staff presented a brief
overview of the study and discussed the implications of the proposed neighborhood
Option #2. Attendees voiced their opinions and concerns for loss of on-street parking
and property access difficulties. The property owner at 706 D Street is concerned about
his parking lot will be used as a turn-around and access due to the change in circulation.

City of San Rafael                                       Chapter 5: Preferred Neighborhood Option
Traffic Engineering Division                                                             Page 148
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Chapter 6: List of Traffic-related Issues Identified by
GPNA

The following is the list of twenty-one (21) traffic-related items identified by the Gerstle
Park Neighborhood Association (GPNA) for City of San Rafael's action -

    1. C Street & Taylor Street Intersection ­ City of San Rafael's Traffic Coordinating
       Committee (TCC) recommended all-way stop control warrant & intersection sight
       distance studies at the intersection. Turning movement count data collection was
       conducted in October, 2006. Turning movement counts for both AM & PM peak
       hours are lower than the volumes required for the all-way stop control warrant.

    2. C Street & Octavia Street Intersection ­ TCC recommended sight distance study
       at the intersection. The study was conducted in 2006; however, extension of red
       zone was not recommended based on the finding.

    3. First Street & E Street Intersection ­ TCC recommended intersection sight
       distance study. The study was conducted in 2007 & based on the finding red zone
       was extended on the south-east corner of the intersection.

    4. First Street between D & E Streets is narrow but experiences high volume ­ City
       of San Rafael analyzed the possibility of imposing northbound left-turn restriction
       (during both AM & PM peak hours) from D Street onto westbound First Street as
       neighborhood options #1 & 2. The results will be presented during the general
       neighborhood meeting on September 17, 2008.

    5. Frances Street between D & E Streets is narrow for high volume ­ City of San
       Rafael analyzed the possibility of imposing northbound left-turn restriction
       (during both AM & PM peak hours) from D Street onto westbound Frances Street
       as neighborhood options #1 & 2. The results will be presented during the general
       neighborhood meeting on September 17, 2008.

    6. Speeding on Ross Street ­ City of San Rafael no longer studies and installs speed
       humps. The Police Department will place the radar trailer if a good location can
       be found to inform motorists of their speed.

    7. Antonette Avenue between C & D Streets used as a short-cut ­ City of San Rafael
       analyzed the possibility of imposing northbound right-turn restriction (during both
       AM & PM peak hours) from D Street onto eastbound Antonette Avenue in June
       2008. However, the traffic volume at this location is low and the GPNA did not
       support the turn restriction as it is not expected to yield significant improvement
       in the traffic operations in the neighborhood.

    8. Crosswalk at C Street & Bayview Street Intersection ­ In general, City of San
       Rafael does not install crosswalks in residential areas, but since it is an all-way

City of San Rafael                                          Chapter 6: List of Traffic-related Issues
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                Page 151
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        stop controlled intersection & one leg of the intersection already has a crosswalk,
        City will prepare a work order to paint crosswalks on the other three legs of the
        intersection.

    9. Supplemental 4-way/3-way signs ­ TCC did not recommend installation of
       supplemental signs at every intersection in the neighborhood. However, the
       committee supported installation of these signs at locations where these would be
       beneficial. In addition, the committee was concerned that all neighborhoods &
       intersections in the City have to be treated in the same way so as not to cause
       additional maintenance & expense if traffic control devices are not justified.
       Also, the upcoming version of Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices
       (MUTCD) will support `All-Way' supplemental signs only, and 4-way, 3-way,
       etc. signs will become obsolete.

    10. C Street & Treanor Street Intersection ­ TCC recommended sight distance study.
        City of San Rafael will perform the study and take necessary action.

    11. Pedestrians In Crosswalks And Safety Operation (PICASO) Program at D Street
        & San Rafael Street Intersection ­ City of San Rafael's Police Department will
        continue to conduct PICASO program throughout the City based on identified
        high pedestrian/vehicle conflict and collision locations. TCC did not think that
        In-Street Pedestrian Crossing signs are appropriate for D Street as standard signs
        exist at appropriate locations. However, the City will continue to monitor traffic
        operations in the area.

    12. First Street & C Street Intersection ­ City of San Rafael conducted a sight
        distance study in 2006 and recommended extension of red zone on the southwest
        corner to improve the intersection sight distance for motorists traveling north on C
        Street. The task was completed in December, 2006.

    13. Diversion of Traffic from D to C Streets/Traffic operations of First Street & C
        Intersection ­ City of San Rafael analyzed the traffic operations of the area and
        presented several options to the GPNA. Final three options (temporary solution
        with minimal changes, temporary solution with moderate changes & permanent
        solution) will be presented during the general neighborhood meeting on
        September 17, 2008.

    14. Martens Boulevard Hairpin Turn ­ City of San Rafael responded to the resident
        regarding the parking concern. TCC did not recommend additional parking
        restriction or, signage in the area.

    15. Repainting Red Zones ­ City of San Rafael repainted the red zones in the
        neighborhood.

    16. Prohibiting/Limiting Commercial Vehicles ­ TCC concurred with the proposed
        weight limit restriction of commercial vehicles & discussed with the City


City of San Rafael                                          Chapter 6: List of Traffic-related Issues
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                Page 152
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


        Attorney's office. TCC recommended that a list of streets & locations be
        identified for installing appropriate signs and included in the final staff
        presentation of the Gerstle Park Traffic Operations Study report to the City
        Council.

    17. Move Crosswalk between Ross Street & Taylor Street to be at the Ross Street
        intersection ­ TCC did not recommend relocation of the crosswalk.

    18. Change Certain Streets to Cobblestone/treatment ­ TCC did not agree to this item
        as such change would create more noise in this residential area.

    19. Citizen's Radar Program Request ­ The program is no longer funded by the City
        of San Rafael's Police Department.

    20. PICASO Program ­ The City of San Rafael's Police Department will return to the
        neighborhood when their staffing will allow them to do so.

    21. D Street Entry Treatment at Wolfe Grade ­ About 10 years ago, the
        Neighborhood was allowed to install neighborhood logos and signs at the D
        Street/Antonette Avenue and D Street/First Street areas. Banners are not TCC-
        related matters. TCC suggested clearing vegetation around the existing signs.




City of San Rafael                                          Chapter 6: List of Traffic-related Issues
Traffic Engineering Division                                                                Page 153
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study




                                Appendix A
         List of Locations for Data Collection




City of San Rafael                                                         Appendix A
Traffic Engineering Division                                                 Page A-1
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


Turning movement counts were collected by City staff at the following intersections:

1. First Street & C Street
2. First Street & D Street
3. First Street & B Street
4. First Street & E Street
5. C Street & Antonette Street
6. C Street & Bayview Street
7. C Street & Octavia Street
8. C Street & San Rafael Street
9. C Street & Taylor Street
10. C Street & Treanor Street
11. D Street & Antonette Street
12. D Street & Bayview Street
13. D Street & Frances Street
14. D Street & Ross Street
15. D Street & San Rafael Street
16. D Street & Taylor Street
17. E Street & Frances Street
18. Second Street & A Street
19. Second Street & B Street
20. Second Street & C Street
21. Second Street & D Street
22. Second Street & E Street
23. Second Street & Shaver Street
24. Third Street & A Street
25. Third Street & B Street
26. Third Street & C Street
27. Third Street & D Street
28. Third Street & E Street
29. Third Street & Shaver Street
30. B Street & Woodland Street




City of San Rafael                                                            Appendix A
Traffic Engineering Division                                                    Page A-2
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study


24-hour Machine Counts were collected by City staff at the following locations:

1.  First Street east of C Street                    38. C Street between Second & Third Streets
2.  First Street west of C Street                    39. D Street between Second & Third Streets
3.  C Street north of First Street                   40. Third Street between C & D Streets
4.  C Street south of First Street                   41. Third Street between A & B Streets
5.  D Street south of Frances Street (northbound     42. C Street between Third & Fourth Streets
     only)                                           43. D Street between Third & Fourth Streets
6. D Street south of First Street (southbound        44. E Street between First & Second Streets
     only)                                           45. E Street between Second & Third Streets
7. D Street north of First Street                    46. Third Street between E & Shaver Streets
8. First Street west of D Street                     47. Second Street between A & B Streets
9. Frances Street (between D & E Streets)            48. Second Street between E & Shaver Streets
10. B Street south of First Street                   49. Second Street between B & C Streets
11. D Street south of Frances Street                 50. Third Street between B & C Streets
12. First Street west of D Street                    51. Second Street west of Hayes Street
13. C Street south of Antonette Street               52. Second Street between D & E Streets
14. Bayview Street west of D Street                  53. Second Street between C & D Streets
15. Woodland Avenue east of Bayview Street           54. Third Street between D & E Streets
16. Ross Street west of D Street                     55. D Street south of Antonette Street
17. First Street east of D Street
18. First Street west of C Street (westbound only)
19. Antonette Street east of D Street
20. C Street north of Antonette Street
21. First Street west of D Street
22. San Rafael Avenue east of D Street
23. D Street south of San Rafael Avenue
24. Bayview Street west of D Street
25. Bayview Street west of C Street
26. Woodland Avenue east of Bayview Street
27. C Street between Bayview Street & San
     Rafael Avenue
28. C Street north of San Rafael Avenue
29. Octavia Street east of C Street
30. C Street south of San Rafael Avenue
31. San Rafael Avenue west of D Street
32. E Street between First & Frances Streets
33. Taylor Street betweem C & D Streets
34. First Street between A & B Streets
35. B Street north of First Street
36. First Street west of E Street
37. B Street between Second & Third Streets


City of San Rafael                                                                    Appendix A
Traffic Engineering Division                                                            Page A-3
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study




                                Appendix B
   Sample of Data: First St/C Street Turning
              Movement Count




City of San Rafael                                                         Appendix B
Traffic Engineering Division                                                 Page B-1
                                                                            CITY OF SAN RAFAEL
                                                                                 Public Works - Traffic Division
                                                                                 San Rafael, California 94901
Counted By: Becky Simon                                                                                                                                         File Name      : First-C St AM Peak 1-24-07
Weather: Sunny/clear                                                                                                                                            Site Code      : 00000000
Counter position: NE corner on 1st St                                                                                                                           Start Date     : 1/24/2007
Day: Wednesday                                                                                                                                                  Page No        :1


                                                                                 Groups Printed- Vehicle - Truck/Bus
                                    C                                        1st                                      C                                                       1st
                               Southbound                                 Westbound                                     Northbound                                        Eastbound
    Start Time    Right   Thru     Left Peds    App. Total   Right   Thru    Left   Peds     App. Total  Right    Thru      Left   Peds    App. Total   Right     Thru        Left  Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
     07:00 AM         0      0        0     0            0       3      6       1       2           12        0      18       0        1          19        1        9         19       5         34           65
     07:15 AM         0      0        0     0            0       6     13       3       7           29        3      12       0        5          20        0       14         38       3         55          104
     07:30 AM         0      0        0     0            0       6      9       1       6           22        3      12       0        4          19        0       17         42       3         62          103
     07:45 AM         0      0        0     0            0      13     16       2       7           38        1      19       0        2          22        0       26         70       1         97          157
          Total       0      0        0     0            0      28     44       7      22          101        7      61       0      12           80        1       66        169     12         248          429

     08:00 AM        0       0      0       0            0     18       5       2        7         32       3       23        1       1           28       1        19        70       1          91          151
     08:15 AM        0       0      0       1            1     13       4       0        1         18       0       28        0       5           33       0        17        88       3         108          160
     08:30 AM        0       0      0       0            0     15       7       2        2         26       0       16        0       1           17       3        12        71       3          89          132
     08:45 AM        0       0      0       0            0      8       9       2        2         21       1       11        0       0           12       0        21        57       1          79          112
          Total      0       0      0       1            1     54      25       6       12         97       4       78        1       7           90       4        69       286       8         367          555

   Grand Total       0       0      0       1            1     82      69      13        34      198        11     139        1       19        170         5      135        455      20        615          984
     Apprch %        0       0      0    100                 41.4    34.8     6.6     17.2                 6.5    81.8      0.6    11.2                   0.8        22         74    3.3
       Total %       0       0      0     0.1         0.1     8.3       7     1.3       3.5      20.1      1.1    14.1      0.1      1.9        17.3      0.5     13.7       46.2       2        62.5
       Vehicle       0       0      0       1           1      75      69      11        34       189       11     136        1       19         167        5      132        449      20         606          963
    % Vehicle        0       0      0    100         100     91.5     100    84.6      100       95.5     100     97.8     100      100         98.2     100      97.8       98.7    100         98.5         97.9
    Truck/Bus        0       0      0       0           0       7       0       2         0          9       0        3       0        0            3       0         3          6      0            9           21
  % Truck/Bus        0       0      0       0           0     8.5       0    15.4         0        4.5       0      2.2       0        0          1.8       0       2.2        1.3      0          1.5          2.1
                                                                    CITY OF SAN RAFAEL
                                                                      Public Works - Traffic Division
                                                                      San Rafael, California 94901
Counted By: Becky Simon                                                                                                        File Name    : First-C St AM Peak 1-24-07
Weather: Sunny/clear                                                                                                           Site Code    : 00000000
Counter position: NE corner on 1st St                                                                                          Start Date   : 1/24/2007
Day: Wednesday                                                                                                                 Page No      :2

                                                                                        C
                                                                             Out        In       Total
                                                                              660            1     661
                                                                               16            0      16
                                                                              676            1     677


                                                                               0     0           0   1
                                                                               0     0           0   0
                                                                               0     0           0   1
                                                                           Right Thru        Left Peds

                                          676

                                          685




                                                  455
                                             9



                                                  449
                                                     6




                                                                                                         Right Thru
                                         Total




                                                 Left




                                                                                                                       Out
                                                                                                            82

                                                                                                            75


                                                                                                                        146

                                                                                                                        143
                                                                                                             7




                                                                                                                           3
                                                                                     North
                                                             135
                                                             132
                                                                3

                                                 Peds Right Thru
                                           606

                                           615
                                             9




                                                                                                                 69

                                                                                                                 69
                                                                            1/24/2007 07:00 AM
                                          In




                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                                                       1st
                                        1st




                                                                                                                       In
                                                                                                                        198

                                                                                                                        189
                                                                            1/24/2007 08:45 AM
                                                          5
                                                          5
                                                          0




                                                                                                         Left Peds




                                                                                                                           9
                                                                                                           13

                                                                                                           11
                                                                            Vehicle




                                                                                                             2
                                             0
                                           70

                                           70




                                                                            Truck/Bus
                                         Out




                                                                                                                       Total
                                                   20
                                                   20
                                                    0




                                                                                                                        344

                                                                                                                        332
                                                                                                                          12
                                                                                                                34

                                                                                                                34
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                            Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                                1   136    11   19
                                                                                0      3    0    0
                                                                                 1  139    11   19


                                                                               16        167       183
                                                                                 2         3         5
                                                                               18        170       188
                                                                             Out        In       Total
                                                                                 C
                                                               CITY OF SAN RAFAEL
                                                                        Public Works - Traffic Division
                                                                        San Rafael, California 94901
Counted By: Suvra Chakrabarti                                                                                                         File Name          : First-C St PM Peak 1-24-07
Weather: Sunny/clear                                                                                                                  Site Code          : 00000000
Counter position: SW corner on 1St St                                                                                                 Start Date         : 1/24/2007
Day: Wednesday                                                                                                                        Page No            :1


                                                                     Groups Printed- Vehicles - Trucks/Buses
                                C                                          1st                       C                                                       1st
                          Southbound                                  Westbound                        Northbound                                        Eastbound
    Start Time    Right    Thru    Left   Peds               Right     Thru    Left Peds       Right    Thru   Left                Peds          Right   Thru    Left     Peds Int. Total
     04:00 PM         0       0      0        1                 35       14       2      20        4       6      2                    4             3     27    133        12       263
     04:15 PM         0       0      0        0                 28       17       3       6        2       7      0                    4             1     29    143          6      246
     04:30 PM         0       0      0        0                 31       13       5      10        2      12      3                    7             1     39    131        10       264
     04:45 PM         0       0      0        0                 18       18       2       5        1      16      0                    2             1     32    113          2      210
          Total       0       0      0        1               112        62      12      41        9      41      5                  17              6    127    520        30       983

     05:00 PM        0        0      0            0            20        17       3           3                4      13      0         2           1      31     138        8       240
     05:15 PM        0        0      0            0            21        11       3           5                5      20      0         3           1      32     124       12       237
     05:30 PM        0        0      0            2            18        15       3           5                1      11      1         7           2      28     104        5       202
     05:45 PM        0        0      0            0            21        14       3           5                2      13      2         5           3      22      95        7       192
          Total      0        0      0            2            80        57      12          18               12      57      3        17           7     113     461       32       871

   Grand Total       0        0      0          3             192       119      24           59               21      98      8       34           13     240     981       62     1854
     Apprch %        0        0      0       100             48.7      30.2     6.1           15               13    60.9      5    21.1             1    18.5    75.7      4.8
       Total %       0        0      0        0.2            10.4        6.4    1.3          3.2              1.1     5.3    0.4      1.8          0.7    12.9    52.9      3.3
      Vehicles       0        0      0          3             188       119      23           58               21      94      8       34           13     239     964       62     1826
   % Vehicles        0        0      0       100             97.9       100    95.8         98.3             100     95.9   100      100          100     99.6    98.3     100       98.5
 Trucks/Buses        0        0      0          0                4         0      1            1                0       4      0        0            0        1      17       0        28
 % Trucks/Buses      0        0      0          0              2.1         0    4.2          1.7                0     4.1      0        0            0      0.4     1.7       0       1.5


                                                                                             C
                                                                                Out          In              Total
                                                                                1246               3          1249
                                                                                  25               0            25
                                                                                1271               3          1274


                                                                                   0     0               0       3
                                                                                   0     0               0       0
                                                                                   0     0               0       3
                                                                               Right Thru         Left        Peds
                                18
                             1405

                             1423



                                            17
                                           981
                                           964




                                                                                                                                   Right Thru
                             Total




                                          Left




                                                                                                                                     192

                                                                                                                                     188




                                                                                                                                                    Out
                                                                                                                                                     261

                                                                                                                                                     260
                                                                                                                                       4




                                                                                                                                                        1




                                                                                            North
                                                      240
                                                         1
                                                      239


                                          Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                          119

                                                                                                                                          119
                               18
                            1278

                            1296




                                                                                1/24/2007 04:00 PM
                             In




                                                                                                                                             0




                                                                                                                                                    1st
                           1st




                                                                                                                                                    In
                                                                                                                                                     394

                                                                                                                                                     388




                                                                                1/24/2007 05:45 PM
                                                  13
                                                   0
                                                  13




                                                                                                                                   Left Peds




                                                                                                                                                        6
                                                                                                                                     24

                                                                                                                                     23




                                                                                Vehicles
                                                                                                                                       1
                                 0
                              127

                              127




                                                                                Trucks/Buses
                             Out




                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                            62
                                             0
                                            62




                                                                                                                                                     655

                                                                                                                                                     648
                                                                                                                                          59

                                                                                                                                          58



                                                                                                                                                        7
                                                                                                                                           1




                                                                               Left       Thru Right Peds
                                                                                      8     94    21   34
                                                                                      0       4    0    0
                                                                                      8     98    21   34


                                                                                  36          157              193
                                                                                    1           4                5
                                                                                  37          161              198
                                                                                Out          In              Total
                                                                                    C
                                                   CITY OF SAN RAFAEL
                                                         Public Works - Traffic Division
                                                         San Rafael, California 94901
Counted By: Linda/Suvra                                                                              File Name      : First-C St (12-hrs) 10-12-06
Weather: Sunny/clear                                                                                 Site Code      : 00000000
Counter position: SE corner on C St                                                                  Start Date     : 10/12/2006
Day: Thursday                                                                                        Page No        :1


                                            Groups Printed- Vehicles - Buses - Small Trucks - Big Trucks
                             C ST                         First                          C ST                          First
                         Southbound                    Westbound                     Northbound                     Eastbound
   Start Time    Right    Thru    Left   Peds  Right   Thru     Left Peds     Right   Thru    Left Peds     Right   Thru     Left   Peds Int. Total
    07:00 AM         0       0      0        0     2     10       1       0       2      9       1      2       2     12      24        4       69
    07:15 AM         0       0      0        0    11      9       1       6       2      9       0      7       1     11      31      13       101
    07:30 AM         0       0      0        0     9      5       0       1       1     16       1      4       1      8      50        4      100
    07:45 AM         0       0      0        1    12     17       3       4       2     26       5      3       0     23      64        5      165
         Total       0       0      0        1    34     41       5      11       7     60       7     16       4     54     169      26       435

    08:00 AM        0        0      0       0     19       8      2       0      2      24      0      7       1      19      79       5       166
    08:15 AM        0        0      0       0      8      10      1       1      0      27      0      0       3      18      88       2       158
    08:30 AM        0        0      0       0     10       6      1       3      2       8      1      1       0      28      82       3       145
    08:45 AM        0        0      0       0     14      10      1       6      0      11      0      1       2      18      67       1       131
         Total      0        0      0       0     51      34      5      10      4      70      1      9       6      83     316      11       600

    09:00 AM        0        0      0       0     21       6      2       6      2      16      1      7       0      18      65       3       147
    09:15 AM        0        0      0       0      8      11      0       4      0      10      0      2       5      14      64       2       120
    09:30 AM        0        0      0       0     10       9      3       2      3       8      0      5       3      14      50       2       109
    09:45 AM        0        0      0       2      5       5      0       2      1      13      0      2       2      18      73       3       126
         Total      0        0      0       2     44      31      5      14      6      47      1     16      10      64     252      10       502

    10:00 AM        0        0      0       0     14       6      0       1      0      13      0      8       1      18      54       4       119
    10:15 AM        0        0      0       0     12      10      0      11      0       8      3      2       1      17      57       1       122
    10:30 AM        0        0      0       1     19       6      2       7      2       5      0      3       3      25      56       1       130
    10:45 AM        0        0      0       2     10      11      5       3      0      11      1      1       3      20      69       3       139
         Total      0        0      0       3     55      33      7      22      2      37      4     14       8      80     236       9       510

    11:00 AM        0        0      0       1     14      17      1       3      2      14      0      0       2      23      84       6       167
    11:15 AM        0        0      0       1     11       8      0       2      0       8      1      1       2      28      90       4       156
    11:30 AM        0        0      0       0     15       8      2       4      3      13      0      0       3      35      83       0       166
    11:45 AM        0        0      0       0     15      23      0       1      0      12      1      2       2      18      59       2       135
         Total      0        0      0       2     55      56      3      10      5      47      2      3       9     104     316      12       624

    12:00 PM        0        0      0       1     18      10      1       1      1      11      0      2       2      26      82       4       159
    12:15 PM        0        0      0       0     10      14      2       4      1      14      1      0       1      23      58       4       132
    12:30 PM        0        0      0       0     11       8      2       3      0       9      1      1       1      21      68       0       125
    12:45 PM        0        0      0       0     15      17      0       5      0      12      0      6       0      27      82       4       168
         Total      0        0      0       1     54      49      5      13      2      46      2      9       4      97     290      12       584

    01:00 PM        0        0      0       0     20      19      4       0      0      18      4      6       2      22      71       9       175
    01:15 PM        0        0      0       0     16      10      5       2      4      20      0      6       0      27      67       6       163
    01:30 PM        0        0      0       1     13      11      2       3      2      13      0      3       4      20      80       3       155
    01:45 PM        0        0      0       0     18      10      1       2      2       8      1      0       1      30      66       4       143
         Total      0        0      0       1     67      50     12       7      8      59      5     15       7      99     284      22       636

    02:00 PM        0        0      0       1     14      15      0       4      0      15      1      8       2      32      84       6       182
    02:15 PM        0        1      0       0     11      14      2       5      2      13      1      1       2      18     102       4       176
    02:30 PM        0        0      0       0     16      18      1       8      0      12      3      2       2      21      94       0       177
    02:45 PM        0        0      0       1     13      13      3       2      5      11      2      4       7      26      89       3       179
         Total      0        1      0       2     54      60      6      19      7      51      7     15      13      97     369      13       714

    03:00 PM        0        0      0       1     10      13      2       2      1      16      2      3       1      27     122       0       200
    03:15 PM        0        0      0       2     11      17      1       3      0      12      2      2       1      29      97       6       183
    03:30 PM        0        0      0       0     13      12      0       6      4      17      1      2       0      33     129       9       226
    03:45 PM        0        0      0       0     19      18      2       3      0      15      0      2       1      38     146       3       247
         Total      0        0      0       3     53      60      5      14      5      60      5      9       3     127     494      18       856

    04:00 PM        0        0      0       0     25      17      2       3      4      17      0      4       5      36     143       1       257
    04:15 PM        0        0      0       0     23      10      2       4      5      11      1      3       0      37     130       4       230
    04:30 PM        0        0      0       2     14      16      1       4      1      15      1      4       1      25     140       3       227
    04:45 PM        0        0      0       1     12      14      1       5      1      14      2      3       0      37     126       3       219
         Total      0        0      0       3     74      57      6      16     11      57      4     14       6     135     539      11       933
                                                      CITY OF SAN RAFAEL
                                                                 Public Works - Traffic Division
                                                                 San Rafael, California 94901
Counted By: Linda/Suvra                                                                                             File Name     : First-C St (12-hrs) 10-12-06
Weather: Sunny/clear                                                                                                Site Code     : 00000000
Counter position: SE corner on C St                                                                                 Start Date    : 10/12/2006
Day: Thursday                                                                                                       Page No       :2

                                             Groups Printed- Vehicles - Buses - Small Trucks - Big Trucks
                              C ST                         First                          C ST                                       First
                          Southbound                    Westbound                     Northbound                                  Eastbound
    Start Time    Right    Thru    Left   Peds  Right   Thru     Left Peds     Right   Thru    Left Peds                  Right   Thru     Left   Peds Int. Total
     05:00 PM         0       0      0        0    17     17       5       7       4     19       0      5                    3     29     159      12       277
     05:15 PM         0       0      0        0    20     16       4       6       5      7       0      3                    2     39     134        5      241
     05:30 PM         0       0      0        1    21     21       4       7       2     18       1      6                    2     55     128      13       279
     05:45 PM         0       0      0        0    20     24       3       8       3     11       1      3                    0     35     117        8      233
          Total       0       0      0        1    78     78      16      28      14     55       2     17                    7    158     538      38      1030

     06:00 PM        0        0      0       0        17          22       2        6          2     17        0      2      1      27     135       8       239
     06:15 PM        0        0      0       2        26          17       1       10          3     14        1     11      1      24     103       8       221
     06:30 PM        0        0      0       1        18          19       3        4          3     13        0      6      2      24      81       5       179
     06:45 PM        0        0      0       2        12          20       1        2          3     18        0      9      1      22      87       8       185
          Total      0        0      0       5        73          78       7       22         11     62        1     28      5      97     406      29       824

  Grand Total        0       1       0       24      692         627      82      186       82      651       41    165     82    1195    4209     211      8248
    Apprch %         0       4       0       96     43.6        39.5     5.2     11.7      8.7     69.3      4.4   17.6    1.4       21    73.9     3.7
      Total %        0       0       0      0.3       8.4         7.6      1       2.3       1       7.9     0.5      2      1     14.5      51     2.6
     Vehicles        0       0       0       24      665         622      74      186       81      627       40    165     80    1175    4165     211      8115
  % Vehicles         0       0       0     100      96.1        99.2    90.2      100     98.8     96.3     97.6    100   97.6     98.3      99    100       98.4
        Buses        0       0       0        0        10           0      1         0       0         3       0      0      1        3      11       0        29
     % Buses         0       0       0        0       1.4           0    1.2         0       0       0.5       0      0    1.2      0.3     0.3       0       0.4
 Small Trucks        0       0       0        0        16           5      7         0       1        18       1      0      1       17      29       0        95
 % Small Trucks      0       0       0        0       2.3         0.8    8.5         0     1.2       2.8     2.4      0    1.2      1.4     0.7       0       1.2
   Big Trucks        0       1       0        0         1           0      0         0       0         3       0      0      0        0       4       0         9
 % Big Trucks        0     100       0        0       0.1           0      0         0       0       0.5       0      0      0        0     0.1       0       0.1


                                                                                 C ST
                                                                         Out      In       Total
                                                                         5457       24      5481
                                                                           24        0        24
                                                                           63        0        63
                                                                             8       1         9
                                                                         5552       25      5577


                                                                            0     0        0  24
                                                                            0     0        0   0
                                                                            0     0        0   0
                                                                            0     1        0   0
                                                                            0     1        0  24
                                                                        Right Thru     Left Peds
                             6293



                             6365




                                             4209
                                 4
                                15
                                53




                                             4165
                                               11
                                               29
                                                 4




                                                                                                           Right Thru
                             Total




                                             Left




                                                                                                             692



                                                                                                             665


                                                                                                                          1277



                                                                                                                          1256
                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                              16
                                                                                                              10
                                                                                                               1




                                                                                                                            18
                                                                                                                              0

                                                                                                                              3




                                                                                 North
                                                     82 1195
                                                     80 1175

                                                          17
                                                            3

                                                            0

                                             Peds Right Thru




                                                                        10/12/2006 07:00 AM
                                                                                                                  627



                                                                                                                  622
                            5631



                            5697
                                15
                                47
                                 4




                                                                        10/12/2006 06:45 PM
                                                                                                                          First
                              In
                           First




                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                     5
                                                                                                                     0



                                                                                                                          1587



                                                                                                                          1547
                                                                                                                           In
                                                                                                                             28
                                                                                                                             11
                                                      1
                                                      1
                                                      0




                                                                                                           Left Peds




                                                                                                                               1




                                                                        Vehicles
                                                                                                             82



                                                                                                             74




                                                                        Buses
                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                               7
                                                                                                               1
                              662



                              668
                                 0
                                 6
                                 0




                                                                        Small Trucks
                             Out




                                                                                                                          Total
                                              211
                                              211
                                                0
                                                0
                                                0




                                                                                                                          2864



                                                                                                                          2803




                                                                        Big Trucks
                                                                                                                 186



                                                                                                                 186




                                                                                                                             46
                                                                                                                             14
                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                   0




                                                                        Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                          40  627    81  165
                                                                            0    3    0    0
                                                                            1  18     1    0
                                                                            0    3    0    0
                                                                          41  651    82  165


                                                                          154      913      1067
                                                                             2       3         5
                                                                             8      20        28
                                                                             1       3         4
                                                                          165      939      1104
                                                                         Out      In       Total
                                                                                 C ST
                                                      CITY OF SAN RAFAEL
                                                            Public Works - Traffic Division
                                                            San Rafael, California 94901
Default Comments                                                                                         File Name      : First-C St (12-hrs) 10-10-06
Change These in The Preferences Window                                                                   Site Code      : 00000000
Select File/Preference in the Main Scree                                                                 Start Date     : 10/10/2006
Then Click the Comments Tab                                                                              Page No        :1


                                                 Groups Printed- Vehicles - Bus - Small Trucks - Big Trucks
                             -------                           1st                           C St                           1st
                         Southbound                        Westbound                     Northbound                     Eastbound
   Start Time    Right    Thru       Left   Peds   Right   Thru    Left Peds      Right   Thru    Left Peds     Right   Thru    Left   Peds Int. Total
    07:00 AM         0        0        0        0      4      6       0       2       1      8       1      0       0      6     25        3       56
    07:15 AM         0        0        0        0      7      1       1       9       1     11       0      8       1      7     28        8       82
    07:30 AM         0        0        0        0     10      5       2       2       1      9       2      5       1     10     54        5      106
    07:45 AM         0        0        0        0     15     13       2       4       2     21       0      2       0     29     83        2      173
         Total       0        0        0        0     36     25       5      17       5     49       3     15       2     52    190      18       417

    08:00 AM        0         0        0       0      13     13       0      4       0     20       1      7       1      26     74       6       165
    08:15 AM        0         0        0       0      12      3       2      5       1     23       2      2       2      20     75       4       151
    08:30 AM        0         0        0       0       6      8       3      2       0     21       0      2       2      25     73       4       146
    08:45 AM        0         0        0       0      18      4       2      3       3     26       0      3       1      20     81       1       162
         Total      0         0        0       0      49     28       7     14       4     90       3     14       6      91    303      15       624

    09:00 AM        0         0        0       0      16     10       2      2       3     12       1      4       2      16     81       0       149
    09:15 AM        0         0        0       0      14      9       2      2       0     15       0      3       0      22     63       4       134
    09:30 AM        0         0        0       1      11      6       1      2       2     15       0      2       2      25     51       0       118
    09:45 AM        0         0        0       0      15      6       1      0       1      9       0      6       1      17     64       2       122
         Total      0         0        0       1      56     31       6      6       6     51       1     15       5      80    259       6       523

    10:00 AM        0         0        0       1       9      6       1      3       0     10       0      6       1      19     62       6       124
    10:15 AM        0         0        0       0      13     14       1      4       1     10       0      5       0      21     52       9       130
    10:30 AM        0         0        0       1      13     11       1      3       1     11       1      1       1      21     49       3       117
    10:45 AM        0         0        0       1      11      7       2      5       2      7       2      4       5      17     54       1       118
         Total      0         0        0       3      46     38       5     15       4     38       3     16       7      78    217      19       489

    11:00 AM        0         0        0       1      13      6       1      2       2     14       0      2       2      22     59       4       128
    11:15 AM        0         0        0       0      20      5       3      1       2     12       1      1       1      29     71       2       148
    11:30 AM        0         0        0       1      16      9       1      2       1     11       0      1       0      25     64       2       133
    11:45 AM        0         0        0       0      12     11       0      4       1      5       0      2       1      25     62       2       125
         Total      0         0        0       2      61     31       5      9       6     42       1      6       4     101    256      10       534

    12:00 PM        0         0        0       0      21     13       2      4       1     17       0      0       5      16     78       3       160
    12:15 PM        0         0        0       2      18     16       3      2       0     18       1      2       1      26     85       3       177
    12:30 PM        0         0        0       0      16     13       1      3       1     15       2      3       2      20     67       2       145
    12:45 PM        0         0        0       0      18     15       0      4       2     17       0      9       1      31     74       3       174
         Total      0         0        0       2      73     57       6     13       4     67       3     14       9      93    304      11       656

    01:00 PM        0         0        0       0      20     16       1      4       0      7       0      4       0      23     81       2       158
    01:15 PM        0         0        0       0      13     15       1      1       2     15       1      2       1      20     70       4       145
    01:30 PM        0         0        0       1      13     10       3      3       3     13       0      1       3      27     64       6       147
    01:45 PM        0         0        0       0      18     13       1      2       1     14       0      0       2      26     72       0       149
         Total      0         0        0       1      64     54       6     10       6     49       1      7       6      96    287      12       599

    02:00 PM        0         0        0       0      17     20       2      4       0      7       0      4       1      36     71       5       167
    02:15 PM        0         0        0       0      18     13       1      1       0     12       0      0       1      28     87       3       164
    02:30 PM        0         0        0       1      23     18       0      0       0     12       0      2       4      25     61       7       153
    02:45 PM        0         0        0       0      16     13       0      5       2     11       1      2       0      21     86       2       159
         Total      0         0        0       1      74     64       3     10       2     42       1      8       6     110    305      17       643

    03:00 PM        0         0        0       2      15     18       0      1       0     16       0      7       1      31    113       7       211
    03:15 PM        0         0        0       0      12     14       1      4       5     14       1      6       0      33    103       5       198
    03:30 PM        0         0        0       0      21     14       1      2       2     11       1      5       1      34    122       2       216
    03:45 PM        0         0        0       0      16     18       0      1       2     14       0      5       4      27    136       4       227
         Total      0         0        0       2      64     64       2      8       9     55       2     23       6     125    474      18       852

    04:00 PM        0         0        0       0      17     17       1     10       3     15       0      2       0      28    128       3       224
    04:15 PM        0         0        0       1      25     21       3      3       5     13       1      1       4      36    134       1       248
    04:30 PM        0         0        0       0      11     19       2      4       0     15       1      1       1      33    133       8       228
    04:45 PM        0         0        0       0      15     10       3      1       3      5       0      2       1      34    106       5       185
         Total      0         0        0       1      68     67       9     18      11     48       2      6       6     131    501      17       885
                                                         CITY OF SAN RAFAEL
                                                                    Public Works - Traffic Division
                                                                    San Rafael, California 94901
Default Comments                                                                                                      File Name      : First-C St (12-hrs) 10-10-06
Change These in The Preferences Window                                                                                Site Code      : 00000000
Select File/Preference in the Main Scree                                                                              Start Date     : 10/10/2006
Then Click the Comments Tab                                                                                           Page No        :2

                                                  Groups Printed- Vehicles - Bus - Small Trucks - Big Trucks
                              -------                           1st                           C St                                       1st
                          Southbound                        Westbound                     Northbound                                 Eastbound
    Start Time    Right    Thru       Left   Peds   Right   Thru    Left Peds      Right   Thru    Left Peds                 Right   Thru    Left    Peds Int. Total
     05:00 PM         0        0        0        1     32     18       0       1       2      8       0      7                   2     38    130         5      244
     05:15 PM         0        0        0        0     18     24       0       9       3     25       0      5                   5     53    123         4      269
     05:30 PM         0        0        0        0     20     21       1       2       5     17       1     10                   4     53    103         9      246
     05:45 PM         0        0        0        1     24     17       1       5       1     10       1      7                   2     31    109         5      214
          Total       0        0        0        2     94     80       2      17      11     60       2     29                  13    175    465       23       973

     06:00 PM        0         0        0       0        25          16       3        0         2     18        1      4       2      32     117       7       227
     06:15 PM        0         0        0       0        20          18       2        3         2     11        0      5       1      32      99       4       197
     06:30 PM        0         0        0       0        14          17       4        2         1      6        1      2       0      14      79       1       141
     06:45 PM        0         0        0       0        10          15       3        5         2      6        2      6       4      13      79       8       153
          Total      0         0        0       0        69          66      12       10         7     41        4     17       7      91     374      20       718

    07:00 PM         0         0        0        0        4            2      0        0         0       0       0       0      0        2       9       0       17
  Grand Total        0         0        0       15     758          607      68     147         75    632       26    170      77    1225    3944     186      7930
    Apprch %         0         0        0     100        48        38.4     4.3      9.3       8.3      70     2.9   18.8     1.4     22.6    72.6     3.4
      Total %        0         0        0      0.2      9.6          7.7    0.9      1.9       0.9       8     0.3     2.1      1     15.4    49.7     2.3
     Vehicles        0         0        0       15     735          603      66     147         68    613       26    170      76    1202    3904     186      7811
  % Vehicles         0         0        0     100        97        99.3    97.1     100       90.7      97    100     100    98.7     98.1      99    100       98.5
          Bus        0         0        0        0        7            2      0        0         3       4       0       0      0        5      16       0        37
        % Bus        0         0        0        0      0.9          0.3      0        0         4     0.6       0       0      0      0.4     0.4       0       0.5
 Small Trucks        0         0        0        0       13            2      2        0         4      13       0       0      0       14      21       0        69
 % Small Trucks      0         0        0        0      1.7          0.3    2.9        0       5.3     2.1       0       0      0      1.1     0.5       0       0.9
   Big Trucks        0         0        0        0        3            0      0        0         0       2       0       0      1        4       3       0        13
 % Big Trucks        0         0        0        0      0.4            0      0        0         0     0.3       0       0    1.3      0.3     0.1       0       0.2


                                                                                    -------
                                                                            Out       In      Total
                                                                            5252        15     5267
                                                                              27          0      27
                                                                              47          0      47
                                                                                8         0       8
                                                                            5334        15     5349


                                                                               0     0        0  15
                                                                               0     0        0   0
                                                                               0     0        0   0
                                                                               0     0        0   0
                                                                               0     0        0  15
                                                                           Right Thru     Left Peds
                              5997



                              6065




                                                3944
                                 23
                                 37
                                  8



                                                3904
                                                  16
                                                  21
                                                    3




                                                                                                             Right Thru
                              Total




                                                Left




                                                                                                               758



                                                                                                               735


                                                                                                                             1300



                                                                                                                             1270
                                                                                                                             Out
                                                                                                                13
                                                                                                                 3

                                                                                                                 7




                                                                                                                               18
                                                                                                                                 4

                                                                                                                                 8




                                                                                    North
                                                        77 1225
                                                        76 1202

                                                             14
                                                               5

                                                               4

                                                Peds Right Thru




                                                                           10/10/2006 07:00 AM
                                                                                                                    607



                                                                                                                    603
                             5368



                             5432
                                21
                                35
                                 8




                                                                           10/10/2006 07:00 PM
                              In




                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                       2
                                                                                                                       2



                                                                                                                             1580



                                                                                                                             1551

                                                                                                                             1st
                            1st




                                                                                                                              In
                                                                                                                                17
                                                         0
                                                         0
                                                         1




                                                                                                             Left Peds




                                                                                                                                 3

                                                                                                                                 9




                                                                           Vehicles
                                                                                                               68



                                                                                                               66




                                                                           Bus
                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                 0
                               629



                               633
                                  2
                                  2
                                  0




                                                                           Small Trucks
                              Out




                                                                                                                             Total
                                                 186
                                                 186
                                                   0
                                                   0
                                                   0




                                                                                                                             2880



                                                                                                                             2821




                                                                           Big Trucks
                                                                                                                   147



                                                                                                                   147




                                                                                                                                35
                                                                                                                                17
                                                                                                                                 7
                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                     0




                                                                           Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                             26  613    68  170
                                                                               0    4    3    0
                                                                               0  13     4    0
                                                                               0    2    0    0
                                                                             26  632    75  170


                                                                             142       877     1019
                                                                                0        7        7
                                                                                2       17       19
                                                                                1        2        3
                                                                             145       903     1048
                                                                            Out       In      Total
                                                                                     C St
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study




                                Appendix C
   Sample of Data: First St/D Street Turning
              Movement Count




City of San Rafael                                                         Appendix C
Traffic Engineering Division                                                 Page C-1
                                                               CITY OF SAN RAFAEL
                                                                        Public Works - Traffic Division
                                                                        San Rafael, California 94901
Counted By: Becky Simon                                                                                                     File Name          : First-D St AM Peak 1-23-07
Weather: Sunny/clear                                                                                                        Site Code          : 00000000
Counter position: SE corner on D St                                                                                         Start Date         : 1/23/2007
Day: Tuesday                                                                                                                Page No            :1


                                                                     Groups Printed- Vehicles - Trucks/Buses
                              D St                                       FIRST                             D ST                                 ----------
                          Southbound                                  Westbound                        Northbound                              Eastbound
    Start Time    Right    Thru    Left   Peds               Right     Thru    Left Peds       Right    Thru    Left     Peds          Right   Thru      Left   Peds Int. Total
     07:00 AM         3      67      4        2                  0        4       5       3       25       0      8          2             0      0        0        0      123
     07:15 AM         2      71      4        4                  0        1       4       7       42       0      7          5             0      0        0        2      149
     07:30 AM         3     134      6        7                  0        4       3       7       56       0      8          1             0      0        0        1      230
     07:45 AM         8     160     16        4                  0        7       5       3       86       0     25          1             0      0        0        2      317
          Total      16     432     30      17                   0       16      17      20      209       0     48          9             0      0        0        5      819

     08:00 AM        1     143      14           4              0         5       3          0        94     0     23          1          0       0        0       4       292
     08:15 AM        3     129      11           3              0         4       6          1        88     0     25          0          0       0        0       3       273
     08:30 AM        7     106      16           5              0         3       5          3        81     0     18          4          0       0        0       3       251
     08:45 AM        1     114      21           4              0         5       6          5        70     0     28          0          0       0        0       2       256
          Total     12     492      62          16              0        17      20          9       333     0     94          5          0       0        0      12      1072

   Grand Total      28      924      92        33               0         33     37          29     542      0    142        14           0       0        0       17     1891
     Apprch %      2.6     85.8     8.5       3.1               0      33.3    37.4       29.3     77.7      0   20.3         2           0       0        0     100
       Total %     1.5     48.9     4.9       1.7               0        1.7      2         1.5    28.7      0     7.5      0.7           0       0        0      0.9
      Vehicles      27      913      90        33               0         33     37          29     538      0    137        14           0       0        0       17     1868
   % Vehicles     96.4     98.8    97.8      100                0       100     100        100     99.3      0   96.5      100            0       0        0     100       98.8
 Trucks/Buses        1        11      2         0               0          0      0           0        4     0       5        0           0       0        0        0        23
 % Trucks/Buses    3.6       1.2    2.2         0               0          0      0           0      0.7     0     3.5        0           0       0        0        0       1.2


                                                                                           D St
                                                                                Out         In       Total
                                                                                      0    1063       1063
                                                                                      0       14        14
                                                                                      0    1077       1077


                                                                                  27  913        90   33
                                                                                   1   11          2   0
                                                                                  28  924        92   33
                                                                               Right Thru      Left Peds
                                  6




                                          0
                                          0
                                          0
                               214

                               220




                                                                                                                         Right Thru
                              Total




                                                      Left




                                                                                                                                          Out
                                                                                                                                           634

                                                                                                                                           628
                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                             0



                                                                                                                                              6




                                                                                          North
                                                         0
                                                         0
                                                         0

                                          Peds Right Thru
                                    0
                                   17

                                   17
                           ----------




                                                                                                                                          FIRST
                                                                                                                                 33

                                                                                                                                 33




                                                                                1/23/2007 07:00 AM
                                 In




                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                                                                            In




                                                                                1/23/2007 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                              99

                                                                                                                                              99
                                                   0
                                                   0
                                                   0




                                                                                                                         Left Peds




                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                           37

                                                                                                                           37




                                                                                Vehicles
                                                                                                                             0
                                  6
                               197

                               203




                                                                                Trucks/Buses
                              Out




                                                                                                                                          Total
                                            17
                                             0
                                            17




                                                                                                                                           733

                                                                                                                                           727
                                                                                                                                29

                                                                                                                                29



                                                                                                                                              6
                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                               Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                                137       0  538   14
                                                                                    5     0    4    0
                                                                                142       0  542   14


                                                                                 950        689       1639
                                                                                  11          9         20
                                                                                 961        698       1659
                                                                                Out        In        Total
                                                                                          D ST
                                                                 CITY OF SAN RAFAEL
                                                                          Public Works - Traffic Division
                                                                          San Rafael, California 94901
Counted By: Suvra Chakrabarti                                                                                                 File Name          : First-D St PM Peak 1-23-07
Weather: Sunny/clear                                                                                                          Site Code          : 00000000
Counter position: NE corner on D Street                                                                                       Start Date         : 1/23/2007
Day: Tuesday                                                                                                                  Page No            :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Vehicles - Trucks/Buses
                          D                                            1                               D                                         1
                           Southbound                                    Westbound                       Northbound                                  Eastbound
    Start Time    Right     Thru    Left    Peds               Right     Thru    Left Peds       Right    Thru   Left      Peds          Right       Thru    Left   Peds Int. Total
     04:00 PM         8       92     27         5                  0       19      11       4      165       0    66           2             0          0      0        0      399
     04:15 PM        11       92     35         7                  0       10       4       3      166       0    58           4             0          0      0        3      393
     04:30 PM        10       96     16         5                  0       10      11       6      139       0    52           1             0          0      0        2      348
     04:45 PM         8      113     19       13                   0       10      11       1      128       0    80           3             0          0      0        7      393
          Total      37      393     97       30                   0       49      37      14      598       0   256         10              0          0      0      12      1533

     05:00 PM       17      120       28           4              0         9       8          6       111     0    54           0          0           0      0       4       361
     05:15 PM        7      141       15           5              0        11      11          4       138     0    67           2          0           0      0       9       410
     05:30 PM        9      134       22          11              0         9      12          3       138     0    57           5          0           0      0       2       402
     05:45 PM       14      143       13           2              0        14      12          4       117     0    53           0          0           0      0       5       377
          Total     47      538       78          22              0        43      43         17       504     0   231           7          0           0      0      20      1550

   Grand Total      84       931     175         52               0        92       80         31     1102     0    487        17           0           0      0      32      3083
     Apprch %      6.8         75   14.1        4.2               0      45.3    39.4        15.3      68.6    0   30.3       1.1           0           0      0     100
       Total %     2.7      30.2      5.7       1.7               0         3      2.6          1      35.7    0   15.8       0.6           0           0      0       1
      Vehicles      83       929     173         52               0        91       80         31     1093     0    486        17           0           0      0      32      3067
   % Vehicles     98.8      99.8    98.9       100                0      98.9     100         100      99.2    0   99.8      100            0           0      0     100       99.5
 Trucks/Buses        1          2       2         0               0         1        0          0         9    0       1        0           0           0      0       0         16
 % Trucks/Buses    1.2        0.2     1.1         0               0       1.1        0          0       0.8    0     0.2        0           0           0      0       0        0.5


                                                                                         D
                                                                                  Out          In      Total
                                                                                         0    1237      1237
                                                                                         0        5        5
                                                                                         0    1242      1242


                                                                                   83  929        173   52
                                                                                    1     2          2   0
                                                                                   84  931        175   52
                                                                                Right Thru       Left Peds
                                   3




                                            0
                                            0
                                            0
                                692

                                695




                                                                                                                           Right Thru
                               Total




                                                        Left




                                                                                                                                            1277

                                                                                                                                            1266
                                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                               0



                                                                                                                                              11


                                                                                                                                                1




                                                                                             North
                                                           0
                                                           0
                                                           0

                                            Peds Right Thru
                                  0
                                 32

                                 32




                                                                                                                                   92

                                                                                                                                   91




                                                                                 1/23/2007 04:00 PM
                               In




                                                                                                                                     1




                                                                                                                                            In
                                                                                                                                             203

                                                                                                                                             202




                                                                                 1/23/2007 05:45 PM
                                                     0
                                                     0
                                                     0




                                                                                                                           Left Peds




                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                             80

                                                                                                                             80




                                                                                 Vehicles
                                                                                                                               0
                                3
                             660

                             663
                              1




                                                                                 Trucks/Buses
                            Out




                                                                                                                                            Total
                                              32




                                                                                                                                            1480

                                                                                                                                            1468
                                               0
                                              32




                                                                                                                                               12
                                                                                                                                  31

                                                                                                                                  31
                                                                                                                                   0




                                                                                 Left   Thru Right Peds
                                                                                  486       0 1093   17
                                                                                      1     0    9    0
                                                                                  487       0 1102   17


                                                                                  1009        1596      2605
                                                                                      2          10       12
                                                                                  1011        1606      2617
                                                                                  Out          In      Total
                                                                                      D
                                                   CITY OF SAN RAFAEL
                                                          Public Works - Traffic Division
                                                          San Rafael, California 94901
Counted By: Willie Lagleva/Becky Simon                                                             File Name     : First-D St (12-hrs) 10-12-06
Weather: Sunny/clear                                                                               Site Code     :D                 FIR
Counter position: NE corner on D St                                                                Start Date    : 10/12/2006
Day: Thursday                                                                                      Page No       :1


                                            Groups Printed- Vehicles - Buses - Small Trucks - Big Trucks
                             D St                           First                             D St                         First
                         Southbound                     Westbound                        Northbound                     Eastbound
   Start Time    Right    Thru    Left   Peds  Right    Thru      Left Peds      Right    Thru     Left Peds    Right   Thru     Left   Peds Int. Total
    07:00 AM         2      56      6        2     0        4       6        0       30       0       7     1       0      0       0        2      116
    07:15 AM         3      72      8        5     0        2       6        6       40       0       8     2       0      0       0        7      159
    07:30 AM         2     107      5        6     0        2       1        1       55       0      21     5       0      0       0        5      210
    07:45 AM         4     158     12        7     0        5      14        4       78       0      32     2       0      0       0        2      318
         Total      11     393     31      20      0      13       27       11     203        0      68   10        0      0       0      16       803

    08:00 AM        4     119      11       5       0       7       5       3     84        0     26       2       0       0       0       2       268
    08:15 AM        3     108      15       0       0       5       6       0     94        0     25       0       0       0       0       1       257
    08:30 AM        3     136      18       7       0       4       2       4     90        1     33       1       0       0       0       3       302
    08:45 AM        6     111      14       3       0       3       7       5     74        1     27       1       0       0       0       1       253
         Total     16     474      58      15       0      19      20      12    342        2    111       4       0       0       0       7      1080

    09:00 AM        6     121      19       8       0       1       2       2     63        0     18       0       0       0       0       1       241
    09:15 AM        4      96      16      10       0       5       5       7     65        0     16       4       0       0       0       0       228
    09:30 AM        5     117      14      11       0       2       5       1     55        0     17       1       0       0       0       1       229
    09:45 AM        4      88      15       2       0       1       5       3     75        0     29       4       0       0       0       2       228
         Total     19     422      64      31       0       9      17      13    258        0     80       9       0       0       0       4       926

    10:00 AM        7      94      13       2       0       1       3       4     57        1     17       1       0       0       0       3       203
    10:15 AM        4      79      12       8       0       6       7       3     59        0     26       4       0       0       0       2       210
    10:30 AM       15      68      16       2       0       2       2       2     62        0     25       1       0       0       0       1       196
    10:45 AM        7      86      21       4       0       2       8       5     68        0     22       4       0       0       0       1       228
         Total     33     327      62      16       0      11      20      14    246        1     90      10       0       0       0       7       837

    11:00 AM       10      83      18       1       0      10       8       0     94        0     23       1       0       0       0       5       253
    11:15 AM       10      77      23       7       0       4       3       2     94        0     28       5       0       0       0       4       257
    11:30 AM       10      86      31       4       0       8       1       3     91        0     28       4       0       0       0       1       267
    11:45 AM       17      81      12       8       0      14       7       2     61        0     27       1       0       0       0       1       231
         Total     47     327      84      20       0      36      19       7    340        0    106      11       0       0       0      11      1008

    12:00 PM       18      93      27       9       0       8       2       1     81        0     27       0       0       0       0       5       271
    12:15 PM       15      92      19      11       0       5       9       6     58        0     35       1       0       0       0       2       253
    12:30 PM        6      86      18       3       0       3       6       3     82        0     35       2       0       0       0       3       247
    12:45 PM       14      91      16       7       0       8      11       5     88        0     22       6       0       0       0       2       270
         Total     53     362      80      30       0      24      28      15    309        0    119       9       0       0       0      12      1041

    01:00 PM       10     115      19       5       0      12       8       1     73        0     36       0       0       0       0       3       282
    01:15 PM       10      97      14       7       0       5       6       1     72        0     32       1       0       0       0       5       250
    01:30 PM        6      87      13       8       0       4       5       4     78        0     23       1       0       0       0       0       229
    01:45 PM        3      88      16       6       0       2      10       2     80        0     32       0       0       0       0       2       241
         Total     29     387      62      26       0      23      29       8    303        0    123       2       0       0       0      10      1002

    02:00 PM       10      95      20       5       0       4       7       3     86        2     23       2       0       0       0       6       263
    02:15 PM        8      81      13       3       0       9       4       2     97        0     33       1       0       0       0       0       251
    02:30 PM       12      79      23       8       0      12       8       3     95        0     26       2       0       0       0       0       268
    02:45 PM       13      83      18       2       0      11       4       1    104        0     49       1       0       0       0       2       288
         Total     43     338      74      18       0      36      23       9    382        2    131       6       0       0       0       8      1070

    03:00 PM       10     101      12       2       0       9       4       4    128        0     33       2       0       0       0       0       305
    03:15 PM        7      91      13       4       0      12       7       6    112        0     47       2       0       0       0       1       302
    03:30 PM        8      94      21      10       0       7       6       7    148        0     42       3       0       0       0       3       349
    03:45 PM        5     111      23       9       0       7       9       4    170        0     53       2       0       0       0       2       395
         Total     30     397      69      25       0      35      26      21    558        0    175       9       0       0       0       6      1351

    04:00 PM        8     101      29       3       0       9      10       3    151        0     50       0       0       0       0       1       365
    04:15 PM        8     100      24       6       0       9       7       4    146        0     62       3       0       0       0       6       375
    04:30 PM        9      86      19      10       0       6      10       4    156        0     70       1       0       0       0       4       375
    04:45 PM        6     112      16       6       0       7       8       5    137        0     52       0       0       0       0       3       352
         Total     31     399      88      25       0      31      35      16    590        0    234       4       0       0       0      14      1467
                                                      CITY OF SAN RAFAEL
                                                                 Public Works - Traffic Division
                                                                 San Rafael, California 94901
Counted By: Willie Lagleva/Becky Simon                                                                         File Name     : First-D St (12-hrs) 10-12-06
Weather: Sunny/clear                                                                                           Site Code     :D                 FIR
Counter position: NE corner on D St                                                                            Start Date    : 10/12/2006
Day: Thursday                                                                                                  Page No       :2

                                             Groups Printed- Vehicles - Buses - Small Trucks - Big Trucks
                              D St                           First                             D St                                    First
                          Southbound                     Westbound                        Northbound                                Eastbound
    Start Time    Right    Thru    Left   Peds  Right    Thru      Left Peds      Right    Thru     Left Peds               Right   Thru     Left   Peds Int. Total
     05:00 PM         8     104     26      11      0        6      10        4     155        0      51     1                  0      0       0        9      385
     05:15 PM        11     135     27        7     0        8       8        7     147        0      70     0                  0      0       0        3      423
     05:30 PM         9     113     29      11      0      10       10        9     149        0      54     2                  0      0       0        7      403
     05:45 PM         8     122     17      18      0      12       13        5     124        1      46     2                  0      0       0        7      375
          Total      36     474     99      47      0      36       41       25     575        1     221     5                  0      0       0      26      1586

     06:00 PM        9      99      18       5          0         10      12          5      138       0      49       3       0       0       0       3       351
     06:15 PM        3      98      15      15          0          9      10          4      112       0      44       0       0       0       0       1       311
     06:30 PM        8      96      14      14          0          7      13          7       83       0      43       6       0       0       0       3       294
     06:45 PM        8      69       9       9          0          8      11          3       93       0      48       1       0       0       0       5       264
          Total     28     362      56      43          0         34      46         19      426       0     184      10       0       0       0      12      1220

  Grand Total      376    4662     827     316          0        307     331        170     4532        6   1642       89      0       0       0     133     13391
    Apprch %        6.1    75.4   13.4      5.1         0          38      41         21     72.3     0.1    26.2     1.4      0       0       0     100
      Total %       2.8    34.8     6.2     2.4         0         2.3     2.5        1.3     33.8       0    12.3     0.7      0       0       0       1
     Vehicles      372    4604     816     316          0        305     326        170     4476        6   1635       89      0       0       0     133     13248
  % Vehicles      98.9     98.8   98.7     100          0       99.3    98.5        100      98.8    100     99.6    100       0       0       0     100       98.9
        Buses         0      21       4       0         0           1       0          0       13       0       4       0      0       0       0       0         43
     % Buses          0     0.5     0.5       0         0         0.3       0          0      0.3       0     0.2       0      0       0       0       0        0.3
 Small Trucks         4      30       7       0         0           1       5          0       31       0       3       0      0       0       0       0         81
 % Small Trucks     1.1     0.6     0.8       0         0         0.3     1.5          0      0.7       0     0.2       0      0       0       0       0        0.6
   Big Trucks         0       7       0       0         0           0       0          0       12       0       0       0      0       0       0       0         19
 % Big Trucks         0     0.2       0       0         0           0       0          0      0.3       0       0       0      0       0       0       0        0.1


                                                                                    D St
                                                                         Out         In      Total
                                                                                6   6108      6114
                                                                                0      25       25
                                                                                0      41       41
                                                                                0       7        7
                                                                                6   6181      6187


                                                                          372 4604      816  316
                                                                            0   21         4   0
                                                                            4   30         7   0
                                                                            0     7        0   0
                                                                          376 4662      827  316
                                                                        Right Thru     Left Peds
                             2445



                             2458
                                 5
                                 8
                                 0




                                                  0
                                                 0
                                                 0
                                                 0
                                                 0




                                                                                                            Right Thru
                             Total




                                             Left




                                                                                                                            5359



                                                                                                                            5292
                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                0



                                                                                                                              12
                                                                                                                              38
                                                                                                                              17




                                                                                 North
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0

                                             Peds Right Thru




                                                                        10/12/2006 07:00 AM
                                                                                                                   307



                                                                                                                   305
                               133



                               133
                                 0
                                 0
                                 0




                                                                        10/12/2006 06:45 PM
                                                                                                                            First
                              In
                           First




                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                      1




                                                                                                                             In
                                                                                                                              808



                                                                                                                              801
                                                      0
                                                      0
                                                      0
                                                      0
                                                      0




                                                                                                            Left Peds




                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                 6
                                                                                                                                 1




                                                                        Vehicles
                                                                                                             331



                                                                                                             326




                                                                        Buses
                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                5
                                                                                                                0
                             2312



                             2325
                                 5
                                 8
                                 0




                                                                        Small Trucks
                             Out




                                                                                                                            Total
                                              133
                                              133
                                                0
                                                0
                                                0




                                                                                                                            6167



                                                                                                                            6093




                                                                        Big Trucks
                                                                                                                  170



                                                                                                                  170



                                                                                                                               12
                                                                                                                               44
                                                                                                                               18
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    0




                                                                        Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                        1635     6 4476   89
                                                                            4    0   13    0
                                                                            3    0   31    0
                                                                            0    0   12    0
                                                                        1642     6 4532   89


                                                                         4930       6206     11136
                                                                           21          17       38
                                                                           35          34       69
                                                                             7         12       19
                                                                         4993       6269     11262
                                                                         Out         In      Total
                                                                                    D St
                                                   CITY OF SAN RAFAEL
                                                          Public Works - Traffic Division
                                                          San Rafael, California 94901
Counted By: Willie Lagleva/Becky Simon                                                                   File Name      : First-D St (12-hrs) 10-10-06
Weather: Sunny/clear                                                                                     Site Code      : 00000000
Counter position: NE corner on D ST                                                                      Start Date     : 10/10/2006
Day: Tuesday                                                                                             Page No        :1


                                            Groups Printed- Vehicles - Buses - Small Trucks - Big Trucks
                             D ST                           First                             D ST                         First
                         Southbound                     Westbound                        Northbound                     Eastbound
   Start Time    Right    Thru    Left   Peds  Right    Thru      Left Peds      Right    Thru     Left Peds    Right   Thru     Left   Peds Int. Total
    07:00 AM         2      65      2        1     0        5       1        0       29       0       9     2       0      0       0        3      119
    07:15 AM         3      71      5        3     0        0       2        9       32       0      11     3       0      0       0        6      145
    07:30 AM         3     125     10        7     0        3       3        5       56       0      11     1       0      0       0        2      226
    07:45 AM         3     178     19        7     0        3      13        4       90       0      27     4       0      0       0        2      350
         Total      11     439     36      18      0      11       19       18     207        0      58   10        0      0       0      13       840

    08:00 AM        4     129      13       3       0       7       5       1     87        0     19       1       0        0      0       3       272
    08:15 AM        3     111      14       5       0       4       1       3     85        0     35       1       0        0      0       2       264
    08:30 AM        4     114      19       3       0       2       4       3     80        0     30       1       0        0      0       4       264
    08:45 AM        6     111      21       8       0       0       4       7     81        0     17       3       0        0      0       0       258
         Total     17     465      67      19       0      13      14      14    333        0    101       6       0        0      0       9      1058

    09:00 AM        6      99      11       0       0       8       4       0     79        0     19       0       0        0      0       1       227
    09:15 AM        8     114      14       7       0       4       5       2     71        0     23       2       0        0      0       3       253
    09:30 AM        7     112      18       9       0       4       2       2     62        0     16       1       0        0      0       2       235
    09:45 AM        4     103      11       7       0       3       3       1     72        0     36       0       0        0      0       3       243
         Total     25     428      54      23       0      19      14       5    284        0     94       3       0        0      0       9       958

    10:00 AM        7      84       8       3       0       4       1       3     70        0     40       2       0        0      0       4       226
    10:15 AM        9      87      16       5       0       8       7       1     59        0     27       1       0        0      0       5       225
    10:30 AM        6      80      11       3       0       6       5       1     61        0     17       1       0        0      0       4       195
    10:45 AM        9      85      24       2       0       4       5       3     54        0     27       2       0        0      0       3       218
         Total     31     336      59      13       0      22      18       8    244        0    111       6       0        0      0      16       864

    11:00 AM        8      88      24      10       0       5       4       2     56        0     29       1       0        0      0       4       231
    11:15 AM       12      66      26       5       0       3       5       1     68        0     23       3       0        0      0       3       215
    11:30 AM        9      73      16       0       0       4       5       1     70        0     19       4       0        0      0       1       202
    11:45 AM        5      80      11       7       0       8       2       2     67        0     30       1       0        0      0       4       217
         Total     34     307      77      22       0      20      16       6    261        0    101       9       0        0      0      12       865

    12:00 PM        3      68      19       1       0       2       7       1     56        0     34       1       0        0      0       1       193
    12:15 PM       10      83      21       3       0       9       6       1     81        0     29       0       0        0      0       2       245
    12:30 PM        9      86      22       7       0       8       4       3     62        0     24       2       0        0      0       1       228
    12:45 PM        8      95      24       2       0       6       9       1     81        0     28       4       0        0      0       3       261
         Total     30     332      86      13       0      25      26       6    280        0    115       7       0        0      0       7       927

    01:00 PM        9      81      19       6       0       9       7       1     77        0     40       1       0        0      0       1       251
    01:15 PM        8      90      15       5       0       7       9       1     79        0     26       7       0        0      0       6       253
    01:30 PM        7      74      20       4       0       4       5       3     75        0     33       4       0        0      0       5       234
    01:45 PM        7     100      22       7       0       8       6       3     78        0     29       2       0        0      0       1       263
         Total     31     345      76      22       0      28      27       8    309        0    128      14       0        0      0      13      1001

    02:00 PM        4      81      21      10       0       7       7       1     87        0     30       1       0        0      0       0       249
    02:15 PM       10      93      22       8       0       7       8       3     96        0     41       2       0        0      0       2       292
    02:30 PM       15      92      16       8       0       8       9       3     72        0     36       0       0        0      0       6       265
    02:45 PM       13      78      13       7       0      12       4       5     92        0     27       8       0        0      0       3       262
         Total     42     344      72      33       0      34      28      12    347        0    134      11       0        0      0      11      1068

    03:00 PM       10      83      21      10       0      12       5       4    113        0     45       0       0        0      0       2       305
    03:15 PM        9      97      18       5       0       5       8       2    111        0     40       1       0        0      0       3       299
    03:30 PM       15      96      16       7       0      10       8      10    134        0     44       2       0        0      0       1       343
    03:45 PM        8     110      21       5       0      15       7       1    140        0     49       2       0        0      0       3       361
         Total     42     386      76      27       0      42      28      17    498        0    178       5       0        0      0       9      1308

    04:00 PM        5      80      22       2       0      11       8       6    137        0     64       1       0        0      0       6       342
    04:15 PM       14      91      25       7       0      16      10       3    135        0     61       4       0        0      0       1       367
    04:30 PM       12     107      21      12       0      13       6       4    137        0     42       2       0        0      0       5       361
    04:45 PM        9     124      12       9       0       8       8       2    126        0     59       2       0        0      0       0       359
         Total     40     402      80      30       0      48      32      15    535        0    226       9       0        0      0      12      1429
                                                      CITY OF SAN RAFAEL
                                                                 Public Works - Traffic Division
                                                                 San Rafael, California 94901
Counted By: Willie Lagleva/Becky Simon                                                                             File Name        : First-D St (12-hrs) 10-10-06
Weather: Sunny/clear                                                                                               Site Code        : 00000000
Counter position: NE corner on D ST                                                                                Start Date       : 10/10/2006
Day: Tuesday                                                                                                       Page No          :2

                                             Groups Printed- Vehicles - Buses - Small Trucks - Big Trucks
                              D ST                           First                             D ST                                    First
                          Southbound                     Westbound                        Northbound                                Eastbound
    Start Time    Right    Thru    Left   Peds  Right    Thru      Left Peds      Right    Thru     Left Peds               Right   Thru     Left   Peds Int. Total
     05:00 PM        12     120     21        6     0        5       9        2     146        0      69     1                  0      0       0        1      392
     05:15 PM         8     125     38      11      0        8      14        7     143        0      60     0                  0      0       0        2      416
     05:30 PM        17     139     27        9     0        9      11        2     133        0      44     2                  0      0       0        4      397
     05:45 PM        10     140     17        8     0        7       9        2     121        0      31     3                  0      0       0        4      352
          Total      47     524    103      34      0      29       43       13     543        0     204     6                  0      0       0      11      1557

     06:00 PM       14     124      21      11          0          6      10           2      128     0     37          3      0        0      0       8       364
     06:15 PM       11     116      11       5          0          5      10           1      121     0     32          2      0        0      0       9       323
     06:30 PM        6      92      12       8          0         11       7           2       84     0     34          0      0        0      0       2       258
     06:45 PM        6      79      10       1          0         10      10           2       82     0     17          3      0        0      0       2       222
          Total     37     411      54      25          0         32      37           7      415     0    120          8      0        0      0      21      1167

  Grand Total      387    4719     840     279          0        323     302         129     4256     0   1570       94        0        0      0     143     13042
    Apprch %        6.2    75.8   13.5      4.5         0       42.8    40.1        17.1      71.9    0    26.5     1.6        0        0      0     100
      Total %         3    36.2     6.4     2.1         0         2.5     2.3          1      32.6    0      12     0.7        0        0      0      1.1
     Vehicles      382    4669     830     279          0        319     301         129     4205     0   1561       94        0        0      0     143     12912
  % Vehicles      98.7     98.9   98.8     100          0       98.8    99.7         100      98.8    0    99.4    100         0        0      0     100         99
        Buses         0      21       6       0         0           1       0          0        16    0       5       0        0        0      0        0        49
     % Buses          0     0.4     0.7       0         0         0.3       0          0       0.4    0     0.3       0        0        0      0        0       0.4
 Small Trucks         5      23       3       0         0           3       0          0        21    0       4       0        0        0      0        0        59
 % Small Trucks     1.3     0.5     0.4       0         0         0.9       0          0       0.5    0     0.3       0        0        0      0        0       0.5
   Big Trucks         0       6       1       0         0           0       1          0        14    0       0       0        0        0      0        0        22
 % Big Trucks         0     0.1     0.1       0         0           0     0.3          0       0.3    0       0       0        0        0      0        0       0.2


                                                                                    D ST
                                                                         Out          In      Total
                                                                                0    6160      6160
                                                                                0       27       27
                                                                                0       31       31
                                                                                0        7        7
                                                                                0    6225      6225


                                                                          382 4669       830  279
                                                                            0   21          6   0
                                                                            5   23          3   0
                                                                            0     6         1   0
                                                                          387 4719       840  279
                                                                        Right Thru      Left Peds
                             2405



                             2423
                                 6

                                 0




                                                  0
                                12




                                                 0
                                                 0
                                                 0
                                                 0




                                                                                                          Right Thru
                             Total




                                             Left




                                                                                                                            5096



                                                                                                                            5035
                                                                                                                            Out
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              0



                                                                                                                              15
                                                                                                                              24
                                                                                                                              22




                                                                                 North
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0
                                                            0

                                             Peds Right Thru




                                                                        10/10/2006 07:00 AM
                                                                                                                 323



                                                                                                                 319
                               143



                               143
                                 0
                                 0
                                 0




                                                                        10/10/2006 06:45 PM
                                                                                                                            First
                              In
                           First




                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                    1




                                                                                                                             In
                                                                                                                              754



                                                                                                                              749
                                                      0
                                                      0
                                                      0
                                                      0
                                                      0




                                                                                                          Left Peds




                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                                 1




                                                                        Vehicles
                                                                                                           302



                                                                                                           301




                                                                        Buses
                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                              0
                             2262



                             2280
                               12
                                 6

                                 0




                                                                        Small Trucks
                             Out




                                                                                                                            Total
                                              143
                                              143
                                                0
                                                0
                                                0




                                                                                                                            5850



                                                                                                                            5784




                                                                        Big Trucks
                                                                                                                129



                                                                                                                129



                                                                                                                               16
                                                                                                                               27
                                                                                                                               23
                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                  0




                                                                        Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                        1561     0 4205   94
                                                                            5    0   16    0
                                                                            4    0   21    0
                                                                            0    0   14    0
                                                                        1570     0 4256   94


                                                                         4970        5860     10830
                                                                           21           21       42
                                                                           23           25       48
                                                                             7          14       21
                                                                         5021        5920     10941
                                                                         Out          In      Total
                                                                                    D ST
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study




                                Appendix D
Sample of Data: Second St/D Street Turning
            Movement Count




City of San Rafael                                                         Appendix D
Traffic Engineering Division                                                 Page D-1
                                                                CITY OF SAN RAFAEL
                                                                         Public Works - Traffic Division
                                                                         San Rafael, California 94901
Counted By: Becky Simon                                                                                                      File Name          : Second-D St AM Peak 10-31-06
Weather: Overcast/clear                                                                                                      Site Code          : 00000000
Counter position: NE corner on D St                                                                                          Start Date         : 10/31/2006
Day: Tuesday                                                                                                                 Page No            :1


                                                                      Groups Printed- Vehicles - Trucks/Buses
                              D St                                       Second                             D St                                         Second
                          Southbound                                   Westbound                        Northbound                                     Eastbound
    Start Time    Right    Thru    Left    Peds               Right     Thru    Left Peds       Right    Thru    Left             Peds         Right   Thru     Left   Peds Int. Total
     07:00 AM         0      69     23         0                  0        0       0       2        0       0      1                  1            9    392       0        2      499
     07:15 AM         0      97     25         1                  0        0       0       0        1       6      1                  2            8    442       0        2      585
     07:30 AM         0     129     27         2                  0        0       0       0        0       2      0                  4           22    460       0        1      647
     07:45 AM         0     171     30         4                  0        0       0       4        0       0      1                  4           21    491       0        3      729
          Total       0     466    105         7                  0        0       0       6        1       8      3                11            60   1785       0        8     2460

     08:00 AM        0     115      27             2             0         0           0           3       0        0       0            6       14     444       0       6       617
     08:15 AM        0      92      28             3             0         0           0           2       0        0       0            2       24     438       0       2       591
     08:30 AM        0     115      38             1             0         0           0           0       0        0       1            2       25     426       0       3       611
     08:45 AM        0     127      31             0             0         0           0           2       0        0       0            1       27     443       0       1       632
          Total      0     449     124             6             0         0           0           7       0        0       1           11       90    1751       0      12      2451

   Grand Total       0      915     229         13               0         0           0           13       1        8       4         22       150    3536       0       20     4911
     Apprch %        0     79.1    19.8        1.1               0         0           0         100      2.9    22.9    11.4       62.9           4    95.4      0      0.5
       Total %       0     18.6      4.7       0.3               0         0           0          0.3       0      0.2     0.1        0.4        3.1      72      0      0.4
      Vehicles       0      915     229         13               0         0           0           13       1        8       4         22       150    3536       0       20     4911
   % Vehicles        0      100     100       100                0         0           0         100     100      100     100        100        100      100      0     100       100
 Trucks/Buses        0        0        0         0               0         0           0            0       0        0       0          0          0       0      0        0        0
 % Trucks/Buses      0        0        0         0               0         0           0            0       0        0       0          0          0       0      0        0        0


                                                                                                 D St
                                                                                 Out              In     Total
                                                                                           8     1157     1165
                                                                                           0         0       0
                                                                                           8     1157     1165


                                                                                    0  915            229   13
                                                                                    0     0              0   0
                                                                                    0  915            229   13
                                                                                Right Thru           Left Peds
                                 0




                                           0
                                           0
                                           0
                             3710

                             3710




                                                                                                                                 Right Thru
                             Total




                                                       Left




                                                                                                                                                  3766

                                                                                                                                                  3766
                                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                     0



                                                                                                                                                      0




                                                                                                 North
                                                          0
                                                  150 3536
                                                  150 3536


                                           Peds Right Thru
                                 0
                             3706

                             3706




                                                                                                                                                  Second
                           Second




                                                                                10/31/2006 07:00 AM
                              In




                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                           0




                                                                                                                                                    In




                                                                                10/31/2006 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                                      13

                                                                                                                                                      13
                                                    0




                                                                                                                                 Left




                                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                Vehicles
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                   4
                                   0
                                   4




                                                                                Trucks/Buses
                             Out




                                                                                                                                                  Total
                                             20




                                                                                                                                                  3779

                                                                                                                                                  3779
                                              0
                                             20




                                                                                                                                 Peds
                                                                                                                                   13

                                                                                                                                   13



                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                    0




                                                                                Left           Thru Right Peds
                                                                                       4           8    1   22
                                                                                       0           0    0    0
                                                                                       4           8    1   22


                                                                                 1065               35    1100
                                                                                     0               0       0
                                                                                 1065               35    1100
                                                                                 Out              In     Total
                                                                                                 D St
                                                                 CITY OF SAN RAFAEL
                                                                          Public Works - Traffic Division
                                                                          San Rafael, California 94901
Counted By: Linda Zeng                                                                                                       File Name         : Second-D St AM Peak 1-23-07
Weather: Sunny/clear                                                                                                         Site Code         : 00000111
Counter position: NW corner on D St                                                                                          Start Date        : 1/23/2007
Day: Tuesday                                                                                                                 Page No           :1


                                                                       Groups Printed- Vehicles - Trucks/Buses
                              D ST                                         ---------                     --------                                   Second St
                          Southbound                                    Westbound                     Northbound                                    Eastbound
    Start Time    Right    Thru    Left     Peds               Right     Thru       Left Peds  Right   Thru       Left         Peds         Right   Thru   Left   Peds Int. Total
     07:00 AM         0      70      9          0                  0         0        0      1     0      0         0              0            5    321      0       4      410
     07:15 AM         0      71     21          2                  0         0        0      2     0      0         0              4            5    404      0       1      510
     07:30 AM         0     108     25          1                  0         0        0      0     0      0         0              0           19    442      0       0      595
     07:45 AM         0     165     19          0                  0         0        0      1     0      0         0              1           32    447      0       2      667
          Total       0     414     74          3                  0         0        0      4     0      0         0              5           61   1614      0       7     2182

     08:00 AM        0     130        22            3             0         0           0             0        0     0   0             2      30     453     0       0       640
     08:15 AM        0     124        18            0             0         0           0             2        0     0   0             0      17     422     0       1       584
     08:30 AM        0     122        22            1             0         0           0             4        0     0   0             2      12     480     0       3       646
     08:45 AM        0     122        19            3             0         0           0             1        0     0   0             1      27     427     0       3       603
          Total      0     498        81            7             0         0           0             7        0     0   0             5      86    1782     0       7      2473

   Grand Total       0      912      155         10               0         0           0           11         0     0   0             10    147    3396     0       14     4655
     Apprch %        0     84.7     14.4        0.9               0         0           0         100          0     0   0           100      4.1    95.5    0      0.4
       Total %       0     19.6       3.3       0.2               0         0           0          0.2         0     0   0            0.2     3.2      73    0      0.3
      Vehicles       0      900      152         10               0         0           0           11         0     0   0             10    143    3349     0       14     4589
   % Vehicles        0     98.7     98.1       100                0         0           0         100          0     0   0           100    97.3     98.6    0     100       98.6
 Trucks/Buses        0        12        3         0               0         0           0            0         0     0   0              0       4      47    0        0        66
 % Trucks/Buses      0       1.3      1.9         0               0         0           0            0         0     0   0              0     2.7     1.4    0        0       1.4


                                                                                                  D ST
                                                                                  Out               In       Total
                                                                                            0      1062       1062
                                                                                            0         15        15
                                                                                            0      1077       1077


                                                                                     0  900              152   10
                                                                                     0   12                 3   0
                                                                                     0  912              155   10
                                                                                 Right Thru             Left Peds
                                            0
                                 51



                                            0
                                            0
                              3506

                              3557




                                                                                                                              Right Thru
                              Total




                                                        Left




                                                                                                                                               3551

                                                                                                                                               3501
                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                  0



                                                                                                                                                 50




                                                                                                  North
                                                   147 3396
                                                         47
                                                   143 3349


                                            Peds Right Thru
                           Second St


                                  51
                               3506

                               3557




                                                                                                                                               ---------




                                                                                  1/23/2007 07:00 AM
                                In




                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                                                                                  In




                                                                                  1/23/2007 08:45 AM
                                                                                                                                                     11

                                                                                                                                                     11
                                                     4




                                                                                                                              Left




                                                                                                                                                      0




                                                                                  Vehicles
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                     0
                                    0
                                    0
                                    0




                                                                                  Trucks/Buses
                              Out




                                                                                                                                               Total
                                              14




                                                                                                                                               3562

                                                                                                                                               3512
                                               0
                                              14




                                                                                                                              Peds




                                                                                                                                                  50
                                                                                                                                11

                                                                                                                                11
                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                 Left           Thru Right Peds
                                                                                        0           0    0   10
                                                                                        0           0    0    0
                                                                                        0           0    0   10


                                                                                  1043                 10     1053
                                                                                    16                   0      16
                                                                                  1059                 10     1069
                                                                                  Out                In      Total
                                                                                                  --------
                                                                         CITY OF SAN RAFAEL
                                                                                  Public Works - Traffic Division
                                                                                  San Rafael, California 94901
Counted By: Linda Zeng                                                                                                              File Name         : Second-D St PM Peak 1-23-07
Weather: Sunny/clear                                                                                                                Site Code         : 00000222
Counter position: NW corner on D Street                                                                                             Start Date        : 1/23/2007
Day: Tuesday                                                                                                                        Page No           :1


                                                                               Groups Printed- Vehicles - Trucks/Buses
                          D Street SB                                            2nd Street                      DStreet NB                                2nd Street EB
                          Southbound                                            Westbound                        Northbound                                 Eastbound
    Start Time    Right    Thru     Left             Peds              Right     Thru     Left Peds      Right    Thru    Left        Peds         Right     Thru     Left   Peds Int. Total
     04:00 PM         0     104      43                  5                 0        0       0       6        0       0      0             8           31      383       0        8      588
     04:15 PM         0     116      54                  3                 0        0       0       4        0       0      0             5           33      374       0        4      593
     04:30 PM         0     100      42                10                  0        0       0       4        0       0      0             5           19      325       1        3      509
     04:45 PM         0     127      58                  2                 0        0       0       0        0       0      0             2           23      342       0        3      557
          Total       0     447     197                20                  0        0       0      14        0       0      0           20          106     1424        1      18      2247

     05:00 PM        0      123               54           9              0         0           0            7        0     0   0             4      33      311        0      10       551
     05:15 PM        0      139               33           8              0         0           0            8        0     0   0             6      31      320        0       0       545
     05:30 PM        0      134               39           5              0         0           0            2        0     0   0             2      22      312        0       5       521
     05:45 PM        0      141               33           2              0         0           0            0        0     0   0             2      15      294        0       1       488
          Total      0      537              159          24              0         0           0           17        0     0   0            14     101     1237        0      16      2105

   Grand Total       0      984              356          44              0         0           0           31        0     0   0             34    207     2661        1       34     4352
     Apprch %        0     71.1             25.7         3.2              0         0           0         100         0     0   0           100      7.1     91.7       0      1.2
       Total %       0     22.6               8.2          1              0         0           0          0.7        0     0   0            0.8     4.8     61.1       0      0.8
      Vehicles       0      980              352          44              0         0           0           31        0     0   0             34    204     2610        1       34     4290
   % Vehicles        0     99.6             98.9        100               0         0           0         100         0     0   0           100    98.6      98.1     100     100       98.6
 Trucks/Buses        0         4                4          0              0         0           0            0        0     0   0              0       3       51       0        0        62
 % Trucks/Buses      0       0.4              1.1          0              0         0           0            0        0     0   0              0     1.4      1.9       0        0       1.4


                                                                                                        D Street SB
                                                                                          Out                In     Total
                                                                                                    1       1376     1377
                                                                                                    0           8       8
                                                                                                    1       1384     1385


                                                                                             0  980            352   44
                                                                                             0     4              4   0
                                                                                             0  984            356   44
                                                                                         Right Thru           Left Peds
                                                     1
                                                54



                                                     1
                                                     0
                                             2849

                                             2903




                                                                                                                                     Right Thru
                                             Total




                                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                      3017

                                                                                                                                                      2962
                                                                                                                                                      Out
                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                         0



                                                                                                                                                        55




                                                                                                          North
                                                            207 2661
                                                                  51
                                                            204 2610
                               2nd Street EB




                                                     Peds Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                      2nd Street
                                        54
                                     2849

                                     2903




                                                                                          1/23/2007 04:00 PM
                                      In




                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                               0




                                                                                                                                                          In




                                                                                          1/23/2007 05:45 PM
                                                                                                                                                            31

                                                                                                                                                            31
                                                              3




                                                                                                                                     Left




                                                                                                                                                             0




                                                                                          Vehicles
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                            0
                                0
                                0
                                0




                                                                                          Trucks/Buses
                            Out




                                                                                                                                                      Total
                                                       34




                                                                                                                                                      3048

                                                                                                                                                      2993
                                                        0
                                                       34




                                                                                                                                     Peds




                                                                                                                                                         55
                                                                                                                                       31

                                                                                                                                       31
                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                         Left           Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                0           0    0   34
                                                                                                0           0    0    0
                                                                                                0           0    0   34


                                                                                          1184                34    1218
                                                                                              7                0       7
                                                                                          1191                34    1225
                                                                                          Out               In     Total
                                                                                                        DStreet NB
                      Gerstle Park Neighborhood Traffic Operations Study




                                Appendix E
     Sample of Data: D Street Average Daily
                 Traffic Count




City of San Rafael                                                         Appendix E
Traffic Engineering Division                                                 Page E-1
                                                                          City of San Rafael.                                                                      Page 1
                                                                    Public Works - Traffic Division
                                                                         111 Morphew Street                                                                  Site Code:
                                                                    San Rafael, California 94901                                                             Station ID:
                                                                                                                                                    D St s/o San Rafael

                                                                                                                                            Latitude: 0' 0.000 Undefined
Start      27-Nov-06             Tue                   Wed                   Thu                   Fri           Weekday Average         Sat                 Sun
Time      NB       SB       NB           SB       NB           SB       NB           SB       NB         SB       NB       SB       NB         SB       NB          SB
 12:00
   AM         *         *        *            *        *            *        *            *     16         19        16       19      39          50       50         34
 01:00        *         *        *            *        *            *        *            *     15         14        15       14      25          27       35         30
 02:00        *         *        *            *        *            *        *            *      7         13         7       13      17          15       21         23
 03:00        *         *        *            *        *            *        *            *      4          4         4        4      11           6        9         15
 04:00        *         *        *            *        *            *        *            *      5         13         5       13       9           8        9          5
 05:00        *         *        *            *        *            *        *            *     29         30        29       30      16          16        8         15
 06:00        *         *        *            *        *            *        *            *     62        166        62      166      27          45       21         32
 07:00        *         *        *            *        *            *        *            *    228        530       228      530      76         112       60         53
 08:00        *         *        *            *        *            *        *            *    353        514       353      514     154         208       99        111
 09:00        *         *        *            *        *            *        *            *    351        420       351      420     283         293      183        165
 10:00        *         *        *            *        *            *        *            *    357        372       357      372     336         321      234        183
 11:00        *         *        *            *        *            *        *            *    384        368       384      368     365         322      266        243
 12:00
   PM        *          *        *            *        *            *        *            *    508     385          508     385      408         339      281        270
 01:00       *          *        *            *        *            *        *            *    521     418          521     418      409         285      281        275
 02:00       *          *        *            *        *            *        *            *    560     402          560     402      364         306      270        242
 03:00       *          *        *            *        *            *        *            *    897     342          897     342      352         321      316        264
 04:00       *          *        *            *        *            *        *            *    869     355          869     355      353         298      312        253
 05:00       *          *        *            *        *            *        *            *    730     372          730     372      297         265      242        253
 06:00       *          *        *            *        *            *        *            *    435     275          435     275      247         250      188        190
 07:00       *          *        *            *        *            *        *            *    262     214          262     214      180         186      149        139
 08:00       *          *        *            *        *            *        *            *    180     176          180     176      129         123      125        103
 09:00       *          *        *            *        *            *        *            *    136     127          136     127      132         140      100        111
 10:00       *          *        *            *        *            *        *            *    130     108          130     108      135          89       59         63
 11:00       *          *        *            *        *            *        *            *     81      62           81      62       68          79       39         34
  Total      0          0        0            0        0            0        0            0   7120    5699         7120    5699     4432        4104     3357       3106
   Day            0                  0                     0                     0              12819                12819             8536                 6463
   AM
                                                                                              11:00      07:00     11:00    07:00   11:00       11:00    11:00      11:00
  Peak
   Vol.                                                                                        384        530       384      530     365         322      266        243
   PM
                                                                                              15:00      13:00     15:00    13:00   13:00       12:00    15:00      13:00
  Peak
   Vol.                                                                                        897        418       897      418     409         339      316        275
                                                                          City of San Rafael.                                                                              Page 2
                                                                    Public Works - Traffic Division
                                                                         111 Morphew Street                                                                        Site Code:
                                                                    San Rafael, California 94901                                                                   Station ID:
                                                                                                                                                          D St s/o San Rafael

                                                                                                                                                 Latitude: 0' 0.000 Undefined
Start      04-Dec-06               Tue                 Wed                    Thu                  Fri              Weekday Average          Sat                   Sun
Time      NB       SB        NB           SB      NB           SB       NB           SB      NB            SB        NB       SB        NB           SB       NB            SB
 12:00
   AM       18         15      28           14      20           11        21           9          *            *       22        12         *            *        *             *
 01:00       5          8       9            8       8            6         9          12          *            *        8         8         *            *        *             *
 02:00      14         12      10            6       7            3        11           8          *            *       10         7         *            *        *             *
 03:00       6          5       2            6       4            5         4           5          *            *        4         5         *            *        *             *
 04:00      10         13       8           14      13            9         9          11          *            *       10        12         *            *        *             *
 05:00      22         36      24           50      23           35        23          42          *            *       23        41         *            *        *             *
 06:00      60        150      76          152      53          165        65         154          *            *       64       155         *            *        *             *
 07:00     233        554     239          579     220          571       223         562          *            *      229       566         *            *        *             *
 08:00     411        588     381          557     425          534       398         587          *            *      404       566         *            *        *             *
 09:00     335        456     353          505     351          457       343         499          *            *      346       479         *            *        *             *
 10:00     388        373     375          419     338          396       376         409          *            *      369       399         *            *        *             *
 11:00     411        446     486          362     445          367       444         385          *            *      446       390         *            *        *             *
 12:00
   PM      469     358        439     398          437     353            477     377             *             *      456     372           *            *        *             *
 01:00     440     373        396     398          440     389            492     360             *             *      442     380           *            *        *             *
 02:00     564     356        580     383          551     383            621     415             *             *      579     384           *            *        *             *
 03:00     761     390        786     432          810     394            815     357             *             *      793     393           *            *        *             *
 04:00     865     365        887     356          862     348            872     367             *             *      872     359           *            *        *             *
 05:00     786     432        700     433          738     414            822     370             *             *      762     412           *            *        *             *
 06:00     459     355        518     332          545     342            568     399             *             *      522     357           *            *        *             *
 07:00     228     198        300     185          271     200            356     215             *             *      289     200           *            *        *             *
 08:00     212     154        230     169          217     142            228     137             *             *      222     150           *            *        *             *
 09:00     169     133        178     113          197     132            209     123             *             *      188     125           *            *        *             *
 10:00      99      68        107      67           94      66            112      73             *             *      103      68           *            *        *             *
 11:00      41      22         38      37           56      38             54      48             *             *       47      36           *            *        *             *
  Total   7006    5860       7150    5975         7125    5760           7552    5924             0             0     7210    5876           0            0        0             0
   Day      12866              13125                12885                  13476                       0                13086                    0                     0
   AM
          08:00      08:00   11:00        07:00   11:00        07:00     11:00       08:00                            11:00     07:00
  Peak
   Vol.    411        588     486          579     445          571       444         587                              446       566
   PM
          16:00      17:00   16:00        17:00   16:00        17:00     16:00       14:00                            16:00     17:00
  Peak
   Vol.    865        432     887          433     862          414       872         415                              872       412


Comb.
             12866                13125                12885                 13476                12819                 25905                8536                  6463
 Total

  ADT        ADT 11,453           AADT 11,453
