GRAND CENTER GREAT STREETS
MASTER PLAN APPENDICES




         +               JUNE 28, 2013
Grand Boulevard, circa 1944
CONTENTS
Appendix A - RECORDS OF PUBLIC MEETINGS ..............................................................................01

Appendix B - STAKEHOLDER & PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT PLAN ........................................................08

Appendix C - STAKEHOLDER INTERVIEWS .....................................................................................24

Appendix D - FOCUS GROUP REPORTS .........................................................................................44

Appendix E - STAKEHOLDER COMMITTEE MEETING SUMMARIES ...............................................54

Appendix F - FEBRUARY OPEN HOUSE COMMENT FORM SUMMARY .......................................150

Appendix G - FINAL PRESENTATION COMMENT FORM SUMMARY & MEETING Q&A .................156

Appendix H - PUBLIC COMMUNICATIONS LOG ............................................................................164

Appendix I - DIRECTIONAL DISTRIBUTION BACKGROUND .........................................................167

Appendix J - TRAFFIC COUNT DATA ............................................................................................169

Appendix K - CHECKLIST RESULTS ................................................................................................318

Appendix L - IMAGE PREFERENCE RESULTS ................................................................................325
Appendix A: Records
 of Public Meetings




                      1
GREAT STREETS                                               PUBLIC OPEN HOUSE
GRAND CENTER                                         RECORD OF PUBLIC MEETING
Date:                   Thursday, February 28, 2013
Time:                   6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m.
Location:               Storefront, 500 North Grand, St. Louis, MO 63103
Attendees:              Members of the Public
Meeting Purpose:        Public Meeting
Project:                Great Streets Grand Center
Project Number:         12082

Public Meeting Description / Purpose
The February 28, 2013 public open house was the first public meeting of the Great Streets Grand
Center Project. The meeting provided an opportunity for members of the public and community
stakeholders to share their vision of a more vibrant, attractive Grand Center. Planners listened to
attendees' desires for community improvements and beautification, such as better parking,
traffic, sidewalks, streets, landscaping, etc.

Meeting Location
The public open house was held in an unoccupied storefront located at 500 North Grand, St.
Louis, MO 63103.

Meeting Date
The public open house was held on Thursday, February 28, 2013.

Form Prepared By

Rebeccah Bennett of Vector Communications Corporation prepared this record of public
meeting. Vector Communications is responsible for public outreach and engagement for the
Great Streets Grand Center project.

1. Describe how the public hearing / meeting was advertised to adequately inform the
   community.

      A variety of outreach and engagement tactics were used to promote the public open house.
      They include the following:

          Electronic invitations to Grand Center Inc.'s plan implementation committee, corridor
          sub-committees, land use committee and board of directors
          E-blasts (several rounds) to:
             o Grand Center Inc.'s master database of arts organizations, restaurants,
                 churches, and community institutions. Database has several hundred contacts
             o Urban League staff
             o Urban League Young Professionals & Guild


                                                                                                  
                                                                                                   2
             o Delta Sigma Theta St. Louis Metropolitan Alumnae Chapter
             o Clyde C. Miller Academy students and families
             o Loyola Academy students and families
             o Harris Stowe State University students
             o Fox subscribers
         Posting of the electronic open house flyer on Grand Center Inc's website
         Newsletter insert / article on the open house in:
             o Grand Center Inc.'s newsletter
             o Fox subscribers' newsletter
         Automated phone calls to Clyde C. Miller Academy families
         Advertising in the St. Louis American (on line and print ads, weekly calendar) and
         with First Civilizations (reaches 20,000 minority professionals and community
         stakeholders)
         Dissemination of 5,000 flyers to:
             o Grand Center Inc.'s PR Directors group
             o Community Forum on Youth Violence (held at Washington Tabernacle
                church on Feb. 22)
             o Metropolitan Artists Lofts
             o Renaissance Place at Grand Apartments
             o University Plaza Apartments
             o Continental Life Building
             o Coronado Place Apartments & Lofts
             o Third Baptist Church
             o Washington Tabernacle Church
             o Washington Metropolitan AME Zion Church
             o Central Baptist Church
             o Leonard Baptist Church
             o First Baptist Church
             o St. Alphonsus Liguori Rock Catholic Church
             o Progressive Church
             o Fresh Bible Church
             o St. Louis University
             o Harris Stowe State University
             o Harris Stowe State University William Lacy Clay Child Development Center
             o Parks College
             o Cardinal Ritter College Prep High School
             o Loyola Academy of St. Louis
             o Grand Center Arts Academy
             o Urban League
             o Grand Center Inc.
             o Delta Sigma Theta, St. Louis Metropolitan Alumnae Chapter
             o Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity
             o Area restaurants and venues
             o Alderwoman Marlene Davis (was given 1,000 flyers for dissemination at
                public meetings and events)




                                                                                               
                                                                                                3
2. Was the public hearing / public meeting held at an accessible place and at a time
   convenient to the participating community? Identify the specific building and room where
   the meeting was held. Provide the meeting times.

      The public meeting was held at an accessible place during evening hours to maximize public
      attendance and participation. An unoccupied storefront on the corner of North Grand and
      Olive (500 North Grand) served as the meeting venue from 6:00 pm to 8:00 pm.

3. Were any requests for special accommodation received prior to or at the meeting?

      There were no requests for special accommodation either before or during the public open
      house.

4. During the public hearing / public meeting, were all concerns heard without regard to
   race, sex, color, familial status, LEP, age, disability, or national origin?

      All concerns were heard without regard to race, sex, color, familial status, LEP, age,
      disability, or national origin.

5. Describe how persons in attendance were advised of the complaint procedures in the event
   they felt discriminated against because of race, color, LEP, familial status, sex, disability,
   age or national origin.

      At the open house registration table, copies of East West Gateway's Title VI brochure were
      made available to all attendees and distributed. This brochure outlines all appropriate
      complaint procedures.

6. Describe efforts to ensure citizen participation in the hearings, particularly by minorities
   and women.

      Targeted outreach to minorities included: 1) advertising in the St. Louis American newspaper
      and with First Civilizations, 2) residential and community outreach with Alderwoman
      Marlene Davis and 3) telephone outreach, flyer distributions and/or visits to Harris Stowe
      State University, Cardinal Ritter College Prep Academy, Loyola Academy, Urban League,
      Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity, Renaissance Place at Grand
      Apartments and all area churches.

      There was no targeted outreach to ensure citizen participation by women.

7. What was the total attendance at the meeting? How many minorities and women were
   represented at the meeting? This should be based on staff observation.

      One hundred and three (103) people attended the public open house. Of these, 67 were
      women and 16 were recognizable people of color.




                                                                                                 
                                                                                                  4
GREAT STREETS                                               PUBLIC OPEN HOUSE
GRAND CENTER                                         RECORD OF PUBLIC MEETING
Date:                   Thursday, May 9, 2013
Time:                   5:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m.
Location:               Cardinal Ritter College Preparatory High School
Attendees:              Members of the Public
Meeting Purpose:        Public Meeting
Project:                Great Streets Grand Center
Project Number:         12082

Public Meeting Description / Purpose
The May 9, 2013 public open house was the second public meeting of the Great Streets Grand
Center Project. The meeting provided an opportunity for community stakeholders and members
of the public to see new recommendations for making Grand Center a more vibrant and attractive
place to live, work, shop and play. Project team members delivered a 90-minute presentation
(followed by a question and answer period) on proposed improvements, including better lighting,
parking, streets, landscaping and beautification, traffic, transit access and more.

Meeting Location

The public open house was held in the auditorium of Cardinal Ritter College Preparatory High
School, located at 701 North Spring Ave., St. Louis, MO 63108.

Meeting Date

The public open house was held on Thursday, May 9, 2013.

Form Prepared By

Rebeccah Bennett of Vector Communications Corporation prepared this record of public
meeting. Vector Communications is responsible for public outreach and engagement for the
Great Streets Grand Center project.

8. Describe how the public hearing / meeting was advertised to adequately inform the
   community.

      A variety of outreach and engagement tactics were used to promote the public open house.
      They include the following:

          Electronic invitations to Grand Center Inc.'s plan implementation committee, corridor
          sub-committees, land use committee and board of directors
          E-blasts (several rounds) to:
             o Grand Center Inc.'s master database of arts organizations, restaurants,
                 churches, and community institutions. Database has several hundred contacts
             o Urban League


                                                                                                  
                                                                                                   5
                 o Delta Sigma Theta St. Louis Metropolitan Alumnae Chapter
                 o Clyde C. Miller Academy
                 o Loyola Academy
                 o Harris Stowe State University
             Posting of the electronic open house flyer on Grand Center Inc's website
             Newsletter insert / article on the open house in:
                 o Grand Center Inc.'s newsletter
             Advertising in the St. Louis American (on line ads, weekly print calendar) and with
             First Civilizations (reaches 20,000 minority professionals and community
             stakeholders)
             Dissemination of 3,500 flyers to:
                 o Metropolitan Artists Lofts
                 o Renaissance Place at Grand Apartments
                 o University Plaza Apartments
                 o Continental Life Building
                 o Coronado Place Apartments & Lofts
                 o Third Baptist Church
                 o Washington Tabernacle Church
                 o Washington Metropolitan AME Zion Church
                 o Central Baptist Church
                 o Leonard Baptist Church
                 o First Baptist Church
                 o St. Alphonsus Liguori Rock Catholic Church
                 o St. Louis University
                 o Parks College
                 o Harris Stowe State University William Lacy Clay Child Development Center
                 o Cardinal Ritter College Prep High School
                 o Loyola Academy of St. Louis
                 o Grand Center Arts Academy
                 o Urban League
                 o Grand Center Inc.
                 o Delta Sigma Theta, St. Louis Metropolitan Alumnae Chapter
                 o Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity
                 o Area restaurants and venues
                 o Alderwoman Marlene Davis (disseminated flyers at public events and among
                    constituent groups)

9. Was the public hearing / public meeting held at an accessible place and at a time
   convenient to the participating community? Identify the specific building and room where
   the meeting was held. Provide the meeting times.

      The public meeting was held at an accessible place during evening hours to maximize public
      attendance and participation. Cardinal Ritter College Preparatory High School served as the
      meeting venue from 5:00 pm to 8:00 pm.




                                                                                                    
                                                                                                     6
10. Were any requests for special accommodation received prior to or at the meeting?

      There were no requests for special accommodation either before or during the public open
      house.

11. During the public hearing / public meeting, were all concerns heard without regard to
    race, sex, color, familial status, LEP, age, disability, or national origin?

      All concerns were heard without regard to race, sex, color, familial status, LEP, age,
      disability, or national origin.

12. Describe how persons in attendance were advised of the complaint procedures in the event
    they felt discriminated against because of race, color, LEP, familial status, sex, disability,
    age or national origin.

      At the open house registration table, copies of East West Gateway's Title VI brochure were
      made available to all attendees and distributed. This brochure outlines all appropriate
      complaint procedures.

13. Describe efforts to ensure citizen participation in the hearings, particularly by minorities
    and women.

      Targeted outreach to minorities included: 1) advertising with the St. Louis American
      newspaper and First Civilizations, 2) residential and community outreach with Alderwoman
      Marlene Davis and 3) telephone outreach, flyer distributions and/or visits to Harris Stowe
      State University, Cardinal Ritter College Prep Academy, Loyola Academy, Urban League,
      Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity, Renaissance Place at Grand
      Apartments and all area churches.

      There was no targeted outreach to ensure citizen participation by women.

14. What was the total attendance at the meeting? How many minorities and women were
    represented at the meeting? This should be based on staff observation.

      Seventy-four (74) people attended the public open house. Of these, roughly 30 were women
      and 12 were recognizable people of color.




                                                                                                 
                                                                                                  7
    Appendix B:
Stakeholder & Public
  Involvement Plan




                       8
                                       


  
  
  
  
            Great Streets ­ Grand
  
  
  
                   Center
        Draft Stakeholder &   Public Involvement
                         Plan
  
  
  
                      
                      
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
        
        
        
                
                
                
  
                          Submitted  To    
                                  
                        Grand Center Inc.
            East-West Gateway Council of Governments
  
                          January 2013


                                                        
                                                             9
                                                                  


          Stakeholder & Public Involvement Plan Table of Contents


I. OVERVIEW ....................................................................................................      3



1.1 Introduction.................................................................................................     3



1.2 Project Background........................................................................................        3



1.3 Stakeholder & Public Involvement Plan ­ Purpose & Approach....................................                    3



II. PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT GOALS & OBJECTIVES........................................................                     6



2.1 Involvement Program Goal...............................................................................           6



2.2 Involvement Program Objectives........................................................................            6



III. STAKEHOLDER IDENTIFICATION & INVOLVEMENT APPROACH..................................                              8



3.1 Stakeholder Identification Procedures..................................................................           8



3.2 Stakeholder Involvement Expectations..................................................................            9



IV. PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT TOOLS/ACTIVITIES...........................................................                  10



4.1 Public Involvement Tasks.................................................................................       10



V. PLAN MONITORING.........................................................................................         15




                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                          10
                                                                                                                                                                                   


I. Overview

1.1 Introduction

The Great Streets Grand Center Project is a six-month planning initiative sponsored by
Grand Center Inc. (GCI) and the East-West Gateway Council of Governments. Led by
Christner and Hoerr Schaudt, the planning process, involves hardscape and landscape
architects, transportation specialists, economic development experts, public art
professionals, public engagement consultants, community stakeholders and the public at-
large in a coordinated effort to enhance the social and economic vibrancy of the Grand
Center District. The resulting plan will build upon earlier work1 to improve the District's
overall design and function, with a specific focus on an area bounded by Cook to the
north, Olive to the south, Theresa to the east and Spring to the West. Once implemented,
the plan will aid the District in generating sustainable economic activity, creating a more
aesthetically pleasing sense of place, and maintaining attractive streets that serve all
modes of transportation.

1.2 Project Background

With its unique blend of performing arts, fine arts, music, media and educational
institutions, Grand Center is recognized locally and nationally as a cultural hub. It is an
established regional destination that aspires to be a thriving community in which people
of all backgrounds and interests come to live, work and play. To accomplish this, the
District must successfully resolve a host of practical and visual challenges that constrain
its growth and limit its appeal. The Great Streets Initiative provides a flexible framework
to address these challenges and to help the District realize its full potential.

1.3 Stakeholder & Public Involvement Plan ­ Purpose & Approach

Advancing Grand Center's "Arts & Life" vision requires the involvement of community
stakeholders and constituents throughout the planning process. The purpose of this
document is to present a comprehensive approach to engaging impacted stakeholders and
the general public in project planning efforts. As such, it describes goals, objectives and
tactics for advancing public awareness, comprehension, and participation in project
activities. These components form the project's Stakeholder & Public Involvement Plan
(SPIP) and are subject to modification in response to changing internal demands and
external realities.

Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964

The content featured in this SPIP complies with all federal and state laws, regulations,
orders and directives regarding non-discrimination in federally assisted programs. Public
outreach, marketing and involvement efforts, including the development of promotional
materials and the hosting of public events will be conducted in compliance with Title VI
                                                                                                                
1
        Earlier work here is a reference to the Grand Center Framework Plan, which was completed in April 2012.


                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                             11
                                                    

of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The project team will work closely with East-West
Gateway throughout the planning process to ensure that environmental justice
requirements concerning minority and low-income persons are adequately and
appropriately addressed.

Guiding Principles

In addition to following Title VI statutes, the SPIP adheres to long-established public
involvement principles that inform the scope and design of the project's outreach and
engagement program. When practiced, these principles work to ensure that the program
1) adopts a process that is open and responsive to the different interests affected by
District planning efforts; and 2) yields meaningful stakeholder and public participation in
the project's decision-making. These principles, which include sustainability,
transparency, accessibility, representation and results, are expounded upon below.

       Sustainability:  Compels the project team to rely upon existing communications
       and outreach channels to raise awareness and involvement among community
       members and stakeholders. Working through established networks (like Grand
       Center's Plan Implementation Committee, Land Use Committee and various
       corridor committees) assures that trusted means of connection will be used to
       foster relationships with District stakeholders and affected publics.

       Transparency:    Works to make the planning process clear and easy to follow.
       The roles and responsibilities of the project team, stakeholder groups and the
       public at-large will be plainly and repeatedly articulated in order to manage
       expectations. Process participants will understand the part that they play in
       shaping the Great Streets plan. In addition, planning activities and events will be
       well publicized so that the public has ample notice of participation opportunities.

       Accessibility:   Maintains multiple points of entry into the planning process.
       Affected publics and stakeholder groups will be given a variety of ways to get
       involved from completing surveys to attending community charettes to
       participating in corridor committee meetings. No matter when people enter into
       the planning process, they will be able to understand the logic of events and
       activities. As a result, they will be able to participate with ease and can provide
       input at various stages of project decision-making.

       Representation:     Means that a broad range of stakeholder and community
       interests will be taken into consideration throughout the planning process.
       Citizens' issues, concerns and ideas will help guide plan outcomes. Here,
       representation is defined both in terms of demography ­ that is participants'
       physical and social characteristics (i.e. race, ethnicity, property ownership, etc.)
       and area of interest ­ that is what motivates participants to get involved (i.e.,
       residential, commercial, cultural, artistic and/or political concerns, etc.). This



                                                                                               
                                                                                                    12
                                                    

       approach attempts to invite all facets of the District, from the "easy to reach" to
       the "hard to reach" into the planning process.
       Results:  Focus the project team on implementing a proactive public involvement
       program that is aligned with Grand Center's project goals and effectively
       responds to community interests and needs.

By following these guiding principles, the project team will undertake a public
involvement process that facilitates constructive exchanges of information and ideas
between the public and the project's decision makers. This process will provide
community stakeholders with multiple opportunities to share their comments and
concerns about project objectives, activities and findings.




                                                                                              
                                                                                                   13
                                                    


II. Public Involvement Goals & Objectives

2.1 Involvement Program Goal

The central aim of the Great Streets ­ Grand Center public involvement program is to
obtain meaningful participation in the planning process by District stakeholders and
constituents. Accomplishing this requires that
stakeholders and the public have an appreciation of
planning parameters as well as an understanding of
major project decisions and their implications. More
specifically, meaningful participation is most likely
to occur when the involvement program
increases project awareness among stakeholders
and the public; stimulates people's interest in
plan activities and findings; deepens compre-
hension of the plan and its eventual outcomes; and
solicits constructive public input. These objectives
are described below in greater detail.

2.2 Involvement Program Objectives

Raising Awareness

Expanding the community's awareness of Grand Center's improvement efforts requires
the project team to provide clear, accurate and easily attainable information on the plan's
purpose, activities, and desired outcomes. To achieve this, the project team will:

    Develop and maintain excellent working relationships with GCI and East-West
    Gateway so that all public information needs are expertly addressed and proper
    communications protocols are followed;
    Participate in regular planning and coordination meetings with GCI and East-
    West Gateway to assure the accuracy of information products and communiqués;
    Employ a variety of communications vehicles to deliver reliable, timely project
    information to the public and stakeholders; and
    Work with local information outlets to maximize the plan's community exposure.

Generating Interest

While public information and awareness activities will deepen the community's
knowledge of the plan, they will not, by themselves, guarantee the public's interest in the
planning process. Getting people to care about the plan means first helping them to
understand how it impacts their quality of life. By focusing on the outcomes that matter
most to people like economic growth, improved patron experiences, better traffic flow,
and increased pedestrian activity, the team will shape a project identity that firmly
establishes the plan's relevance.


                                                                                           
                                                                                                14
                                                   



Promoting Understanding

Once District constituents are interested in the plan, the team will need to intensify its
explanation of project issues as well as deepen its comprehension of stakeholders' values,
needs and priorities. Through stakeholder and committee meetings and community
charrettes, the team will facilitate learning and sharing around key plan components,
including:

    First impression analysis (visual assessment of public realm and visitor
    experience),
    Traffic and parking (conditions, capacity, demand and supply),
    Utility/easement documentation (utility conditions, feasibility),
    Environmental data reports and as-built drawings,
    Pedestrian circulation (incidental meeting spots, gathering spaces and desire lines),
    ADA accessibility analysis (buildings, streets, routes, parking), and
    Bus and bike routes (bus stops, bike desire lines, bike storage).

Soliciting Input

The project team's work to educate the community about the District's Great Streets
planning effort will help prepare the public to provide meaningful input into the planning
process. The more informed stakeholders and community members are about the project,
the more likely they are to generate feedback that is helpful and insightful. To solicit
stakeholder and community input, the project team will:

    Meet with District stakeholder committees and institutions;
    Maintain open lines of communication with civic and business interests, elected
    officials, educational and faith based institutions, and neighborhood residents;
    Hold several days of community charrettes / workshops; and
    Employ a host of communication channels such as online surveys, comment
    forms, email messaging, newsletter inserts et.al.

Viewed broadly, this public involvement program is designed to cultivate stakeholder and
public trust in the planning process. This trust is fostered through an accountable and
responsive public involvement program that clearly connects the project's work to the
District's goals and needs.




                                                                                         
                                                                                              15
                                                    


III. Stakeholder Identification & Involvement Approach

3.1 Stakeholder Identification Procedures

One of the first and most critical steps of the SPIP is to identify project stakeholders. A
stakeholder is defined as any person or organization interested in or directly affected by
the project's activities. This usually includes, but is not limited to, residents or property
owners, neighborhood groups, business owners and operators, elected/community
officials, governmental resource agencies, special interest groups and religious and civic
institutions. Stakeholders for the Great Streets Grand Center Project have been identified
by GCI.

Below is a list of project stakeholders:

    Grand Center's 10 planning committees (comprised of major stakeholder
    institutions, District property owners, and municipal and state resource agencies):
        o Plan Implementation Committee
        o Land Use Committee
        o Art Walk Corridor Sub-Committee
        o Grand Boulevard Corridor Sub-Committee
        o Grandel Square Corridor Sub-Committee
        o Olive Street Corridor Sub-Committee
        o Spring Corridor Sub-Committee
        o Theresa Corridor Sub-Committee
        o Washington Corridor Sub-Committee
        o Technical Advisory Group
    Residential interests in and adjacent to the planning area. These include, but are
    not limited to:
        o Metropolitan Artists Lofts
        o Renaissance Place at Grand Apartments
        o University Plaza Apartments
        o Continental Life Building
        o Coronado Place Apartments & Lofts
        o Individual property owners
    Elected/community officials:
       o Alderwoman Marlene Davis, Ward 19
    Educational institutions:
       o St. Louis University
       o Harris Stowe State University
       o Parks College
       o Cardinal Ritter College Prep High School
       o Loyola Academy of St. Louis
       o Grand Center Arts Academy
       o Clyde Miller Career Academy



                                                                                             
                                                                                                  16
                                                    



    Religious organizations:
       o Third Baptist Church
       o Washington Tabernacle Church
       o Washington Metropolitan AME Zion Church
       o Central Baptist Church
       o Leonard Baptist Church
       o First Baptist Church
       o St. Alphonsus Liguori Rock Catholic Church
    Area hospitals:
       o John Cochran Veterans Administration Medical Center
    Civic/community organizations:
       o Grand Center Inc.
       o Urban League of Metropolitan St. Louis

The abovementioned stakeholders are among a larger group of impacted and interested
parties, more of whom will be identified through the project team's outreach and
engagement efforts. All stakeholders will be entered into the project's database so that
they can be kept abreast of project details and participation opportunities.

3.2 Stakeholder Involvement Expectations

Meaningful connections with project stakeholders will help the team develop a plan that
is community supported. Recognizing this, the team expects that stakeholders involved
in project planning will share their issues, concerns and priorities and help build public
interest and involvement in the plan. Input received from stakeholders and the public
will be incorporated into the plan's findings and considered by the project team.




                                                                                            
                                                                                                 17
                                                    


IV. Public Involvement Tools/Activities

The public involvement and communications activities presented on the following pages
describe the core work of the SPIP and are the primary means by which its goals and
objectives will be achieved. Responsibility for the coordination and execution of these
activities rests with the project team.

4.1 Public Involvement Tasks

Stakeholder & Public Involvement Plan

The Stakeholder & Public Involvement Plan (also referred to as the Community
Engagement Plan) will describe the range of activities the project team will undertake to
engage stakeholders and affected publics in plan development and decision-making. It
will also outline the goals and objectives of the involvement process; identify key
stakeholder groups; and clarify the specific communication strategies, meeting schedules
and expected outcomes of the engagement process.

Deliverables: Stakeholder & Public Involvement Plan
Accountable Party: Project Team
Timeframe: January 31, 2013
Associated Outreach: None required

Kick-off Meeting

The project team will participate in a project Kick-off meeting with members of Grand
Center's 10 planning committees and stakeholders of current District initiatives. The
purpose of this meeting is to:

       Update participants on the revisions to the Framework Plan;
       Introduce the members of the project team and briefly review their qualifications;
       Layout the principles and objectives of the Great Streets program; and
       Present the overall project schedule and responsibilities of the subcommittees.

Deliverables: Kick-off Meeting Minutes
Accountable Party: Project Team
Timeframe: January 9, 2013
Associated Outreach: Performed by GCI

Goals Summary / Great Streets Checklist

The project team will create a checklist that 1) incorporates the outcomes of the
Framework Plan with the principles of the Great Streets Program; and 2) articulates the
specific planning objectives that will govern project planning and design direction. This
checklist will also document the goals, priorities and strategies identified at the beginning
of the project and will be used throughout the planning process to evaluate concepts and


                                                                                           
                                                                                                18
                                                     

designs. In addition, the team will produce a summary of the project's goals and
continuously assess progress on these goals.

Deliverables: Goals Summary and Great Streets Checklist
Accountable Party: Project Team
Timeframe: January 30, 2013
Associated Outreach: None required

Committee Meetings

Select project team members will participate in two rounds of Grand Center planning
meetings with the District's six corridor subcommittees. The first round will follow the
project Kick-off meeting and will provide an opportunity for committee members to
review the Framework Plan's recommendations for the entire district and for their
corridors of interest. It will also give the project team a forum to listen to stakeholders'
issues and aspirations. Team members will use Framework Plan graphics and previous
meeting minutes to guide the discussion / listening sessions.

The second round of committee meetings will take place when the planning work is
roughly 75% complete. During these meetings, the project team will present its work to
date and solicit reactions and feedback.

Deliverables: Meeting Minutes, Outcomes & Team Direction
Accountable Party: Project Team
Round 1 Timeframe: January 10 & 11, 2013
Round 2 Timeframe: April 4 & 5, 2013 ­ Target Date
Associated Outreach: Performed by GCI

Stakeholder Interviews & Focus Group Meetings

Stakeholders currently undertaking planning efforts and capital improvements in the
District will be contacted for key informant interviews. Sixty to 90 minutes in length,
these interviews enable the project team to learn about plans and developments currently
underway and, where appropriate, to incorporate this information into the Great Streets
planning process. Six stakeholder interviews have been planned. They include:

   1.   John Cochran VA Medical Center ­ January 24, 2103
   2.   Alderwoman Marlene Davis (Ward 19) ­ Week of February 11, 2013
   3.   Grand Center Arts Academy ­ Week of February 11, 2013
   4.   Clyde Miller Career Academy ­ Week of February 18, 2013
   5.   St. Louis University ­ Week of February 18, 2013
   6.   Great Rivers Greenway District ­ Week of March 11, 2013

In addition to the stakeholder interviews, two focus groups will be held ­ one with
District residents and the other with area employees. These 90 minute meetings will help
the project team understand live / work priorities, interests and concerns in the District.



                                                                                            
                                                                                                 19
                                                     



The Resident Focus Group will be comprised of 12 to 15 District residents. Property
managers at the Renaissance Place at Grand Apartments, Metropolitan Artists Lofts,
University Plaza Apartments, Continental Life Building and Coronado Place Apartments
and Lofts will be asked to solicit the involvement of their tenants. Individual property
owners who live between Spring and Grand will also be invited to participate.

The Employee Focus Group will have between 15 to 20 participants who work at major
institutions located within the District. Grand Center's February PR/Communications
Network meeting, which is attended by area employees from major cultural and
educational institutions as well as local restaurants, is being repurposed so that the project
team can obtain planning insights from those who work in the District.

Deliverables: 6 Stakeholder Interviews, 2 Focus Groups and Interview/Meeting
Summaries
Accountable Party: Project Team
Interview Timeframe: See page 11
Focus Group Timeframe:
     Resident Focus Group: February 26, 2013 ­ Target Date
     Employee Focus Group: February 21, 2013
Associated Outreach: Performed by Project Team and GCI

Digital Survey and Analysis

The project team will develop digital survey questions directed toward area
patrons/volunteers, residents, students, employees and worshippers to obtain input on the
Distict's opportunities and challenges. An electronic survey will be submitted to GCI
and East-West Gateway for review and then administered two times ­ the first time to
establish baseline data that informs the plan's Great Streets criteria and the second time to
request input on the effectiveness of design solutions in meeting the criteria. The team
will analyze the survey findings and provide results to the project's sponsors.

Deliverables: Survey Questions & Response Analysis
Accountable Party: Project Team
Timeframe: Week of February 18, 2013 through Week of March 18, 2013
Associated Outreach: Performed by Emerson and GCI with input from Project Team

Community Charrette / Workshop

At the end of February, the project team will conduct a two day community charrette /
workshop. The charrette will be organized to allow subcommittee members, stakeholders,
Technical Advisory Group members and interested citizens access to the design team and
will help ensure their early participation in plan development. By the second week in
February, the project team will prepare an agenda and schedule for the charrette that
enables participants to explore a range of issues, focus areas and aesthetic preferences.
Team members will collect feedback from the charrette and will provide GCI and East-



                                                                                            
                                                                                                 20
                                                    

West Gateway a summary of findings and meeting minutes. Public notice of the
charrette will be placed in local media outlets to generate stakeholder and public
awareness.

Deliverables: Charrette Agenda, Schedule, Presentation & Materials, Findings &
Meeting Minutes
Accountable Party: Project Team
Timeframe: February 28, 2013 through March 1, 2013
Associated Outreach: Performed by GCI & Project Team

Technical Advisory Group (TAG) Meetings

Two TAG meetings will be held over the course of the planning process. The first
meeting is scheduled for after the project kick-off while the second meeting will take
place at the 75% design completion stage. The purpose of these meetings is to
understand the long-term transportation and utility needs of the District within the context
of the Framework Plan and the evolving District master plan. Input and insights from the
meeting will be captured and shared with the project's sponsors.

Deliverables: Meeting Minutes
Accountable Party: Project Team
Meeting 1 Timeframe: January 10, 2013
Meeting 2 Timeframe: April 4 or 5, 2013 ­ Target Date
Associated Outreach: Performed by GCI

Visual Arts Advisory Group Meeting

The project team will meet with the Visual Arts Advisory Committee one time to explore
the long-term challenges of art integration into the public realm. The timing of this
meeting will be linked to the availability of the artists and is yet to be determined. The
target for meeting with this group is near 50% design completion to allow the
incorporation of art opportunities into the design aesthetic. Team members will
summarize meeting findings.

Deliverables: Meeting Minutes
Accountable Party: Project Team
Timeframe: Requires further discussion and consideration
Associated Outreach: Performed by GCI

Land Use Committee Meeting

Grand Center's land use committee will meet once with the project team to review the
plan's preliminary findings as well as the recommendations of the market analysis. Team
members will document committee members' input and share it with GCI and East-West
Gateway.




                                                                                          
                                                                                               21
                                                  

Deliverables: Meeting Minutes
Accountable Party: Project Team
Timeframe: January 14, 2013 (initial meeting with GCI leaders) and April 4 or 5, 2013
(with Project Team) ­ Target Date
Associated Outreach: Performed by GCI

Final Presentation

A community presentation of the plan that includes a formal review of the plan's
components and an open discussion of findings will be held near the project's completion
to allow District stakeholders the opportunity to comment. The project team will capture
participants' feedback and include it in the project record.

Deliverables: PowerPoint Presentation & Presentation Boards, Meeting Comment
Summary
Accountable Party: Project Team
Timeframe: May 9, 2013 ­ Target Date
Associated Outreach: Performed by GCI

Scope & Capacity Building Session

The project team will meet with the Core Planning Team (which includes the plan's
sponsors), members of the TAG and other critical stakeholders to 1) review potential
phasing, funding and bundling of the identified work; 2) disclose cost estimates; and 3)
explain the critical linkages between work segments. As with all project meetings, a
summary of participants' comments will be developed and shared with project sponsors.

Deliverables: Meeting Minutes
Accountable Party: Project Team
Timeframe: May 9, 2013 ­ Target Date
Associated Outreach: Performed by GCI




                                                                                       
                                                                                            22
                                                 


V. Plan Monitoring

This Stakeholder and Public Involvement Plan (SPIP) will be regularly reviewed for
effectiveness and amended as appropriate. It is an "evergreen" document that may be
updated by the project team during the six-month planning period. Should the SPIP need
to be modified, team members will do so in a transparent manner that preserves the
integrity of the public involvement program.




                                                                                     
                                                                                          23
Appendix C:
Stakeholder
 Interviews




              24
GREAT STREETS                                                 STAKEHOLDER
GRAND CENTER                                               MEETING SUMMARY
Date:                 Tuesday, February 5, 2013
Time:                 8:30 am
Location:             Grand Center Arts Academy
Attendees:            Lynne Glickert ­ Principal of GCAA, Dan Rubright - GCAA, Dan
                      Jay ­ Christner, Rachel Powers ­ Vector Communications
Meeting Purpose:      Stakeholder Interview
Project:              Great Streets Grand Center
Project Number:       12082

Introduction:
Dan Jay opened the meeting thanking Lynne and Dan for their time meeting with the
team. He then explained how the Great Streets process is building on the recently
completed Framework Plan. He also explained that this meeting is to dive deeper into
issues that affect Grand Center Arts Academy (GCAA), so that these issues can be
considered by the team and addressed in the process. He also discussed the team's
upcoming public open house, scheduled for Thursday, February 28, 2013 from 6:00 to
8:00 pm.

Question 1: What is the history of GCAA and where is GCAA going?
Answer: Lynne - Our staff had one year to get the school up and going. I went to Vince
Schoemehl to ask for use of the Grand Center name. We wanted to be called Grand
Center Arts Academy so that we could be ingrained in the center of the arts district. The
name wasn't proprietary, so we used it with Vince's approval. The first year of school
was held in the Baptist Church across Grand Ave. The current student population is 430,
with a maximum enrollment of 750 students.

GCAA's biggest challenge is being landlocked. Students and staff love being able to
walk to the arts organizations and that is what Dan works on most ­ partnerships. The
sidewalks don't work well for kids because they are too small. Our challenge is how to
dismiss a school of 750 kids with these small sidewalks and being landlocked.

With the excitement about this school, I don't lose sleep about the future of the school.
People are very excited about what we are doing here and we are really doing some great
things with these students. We have been able to be very flexible with addressing issues
that arise. I am excited to be a place where the kids can be their quirky selves without
being ostracized. These kids have now settled into a place where they aren't thought of as
strange.

Question 2: How big is your staff?
Answer: Lynne ­ We have 47 staff members ­ including custodial staff, and part time
and full time teachers. When we get to 750 students, we will have about 80 staff
including some part time employees.



                                                                                          
                                                                                               25
Dan R. ­ As we build more partnerships and expand our faculty and after school
programs, we will be expanding the extra special arts focus of the school, including
media like filmmaking.

One thing we are working on is how to get more levels of art engagement in Grand
Center. There seems to be a frequency range of the organizations working in Grand
Center. There is a high frequency with Pulitzer and symphony type organizations. There
seems to be a high level of group think when it comes to this district and the arts
programs offered. Then you have a lower frequency range where we fit. Craft Alliance is
more aligned with us because we both focus on education and outreach. We want to have
more cross talk between the frequencies. It's all a matter of how the organizations see
their assets. We are trying to think through how we can get the upper frequencies to see
how they can work with the lower frequencies to do more engagement and programming
on a wider scale. Their thinking seems to be "we have our show then let out and it's
over" versus thinking that there are a lot of levels of art opportunities that people can be
engaged in. We are looking at art from a sidewalk chalk level all the way up. Art is
everywhere and it doesn't have to just be through the shows, it can be more engaging.

Question 3: What percentage of students come in vehicles by parents?
Answer: Lynne - Most students are brought to school by their parents since we don't
provide transportation. About 5% of students at this point ride public transportation. All
the staff park behind Powell Hall where the Circus Flora tent is usually set up. Fifteen
percent of students come from St. Louis County, which is part of the problem. With the
gas prices, we are starting to see some of those students not return to school. The
commuting price is too high for some of them. We are trying to look at carpools and
public transportation, but those efforts haven't caught on yet.

Question 4: In the afternoon, what is pick up like at 3:30?
Answer: Lynne - Currently we take all kids across Grand Ave to the parking lot and the
parents pick them up there. When the weather is bad, we don't have a plan B. We've had
the streets department come in and they haven't been able to come up with a plan. They
look at our issue and say, "yep you have a problem."

Dan R. ­ The symphony hates it and it is a big problem that's getting worse. I've been
out at events and people from the Symphony have mentioned the issue to me.

Lynne ­ There are probably 200 cars on that back lot at 3:30 pm. Some of them park on
Samuel Shepard and the kids walk down to meet them. We used to use the space near the
Sun Theatre, but since they have started construction we can't use that space any more.

Question 5: Will you do pick up shifts?
Answer: Lynne - We might try that next year, but we can't really do that easily because
of parents with kids in multiple grades. As we increase our robust afterschool program
we will eliminate the issue more, but it's going to really be an issue no matter how we
stagger our dismissal.




                                                                                              
                                                                                                   26
Dan R.­ If we can project data about the number of cars we are dealing with, will that
really help?

Dan J. - Yes, if you could give us the numbers of vehicles that you see, it will be very
useful. This is an urban situation and congestion comes from urban situations so we
won't solve it all, but we should anticipate it and build it into the plan.

Lynne ­ We love the idea of opening our doors, having a green space and having a turn
around at the Sun Theatre. All high schools you look at have very open spaces. A concern
for us is having a space for students to safely linger during dismissal. They are so social
that they don't want to leave after school and we are often shooing them toward their
waiting parents or buses when they want to stick around talk with their friends. They
often don't get to interact with other kids that are like them in their neighborhood or
home environment, so this time with their friends - they really enjoy it.

Dan R. ­ As we think about after school programs, we should look at them as
disbursement programs as well ­ if we can keep at least 1/3 of the students at least one
hour after school we could potentially disperse more efficiently.

My idea is possibly a tunnel that goes underneath Grand from here to the Powell side so
people don't ever have to think about crossing Grand Ave to get to the other side. Grand
is really just a highway. I have lots of pictures in my phone of accidents, people being hit
by cars; a student was dinged by a car. I think about how do you get people through
Grand in a fun and light-hearted way? A tunnel is one way to do it.

Lynne ­ We have teachers who think they are risking their lives at the end of the school
day. There has got to be a way for us to think about going west for our dismissal. There is
so much less traffic that direction and I do worry about it. We just don't have a good
system now even with teachers in vests, crossing guards, or the zebra stripes on the street.
Most people don't even pay attention to the zebra stripes, they just speed right through
them ­ even though they are supposed to stop for pedestrians.

Dan R. ­ Chances are the VA will max out Delmar going west and we don't know about
this street {Grandel Square} and Grand will always be a danger.

Question 6: Up to the edge of the Sun where the parking lot is, who owns that?
Answer: Lynne - We are not sure, each time we ask we get a different answer. We also
don't really know what they are planning to do with the Urban League lot and the drive
through. There was talk of a swap.

Question 7: Would you ever do something where you could have staff accompany
kids on the bus to the Metrolink ­ possibly a shuttle or articulated bus?
Answer: Lynne ­ I don't think any of our kids take that Metrolink. But, it's not
uncommon to have the bus that stops close by from the South to be half filled with our
kids. Some others use the Delmar bus (about 12 from east and 15 from west). You are
right, the reason urban schools work is because of transit.



                                                                                            
                                                                                                 27
Dan J. ­ You have to think about taking a proactive role to get people to think about
transit as a very viable option. Maybe there is a teacher that lives in the area and if the
kids are on the bus by 7:30 am then they will ride with the teacher.

Lynne ­ That's a good idea, we never thought about it that way, but that's a great idea.

Dan R. ­ As kids get in high school, some of them can ride their bike to the Metrolink.

Question 7: I want to learn more about green space. Tell me about your future
vision there?
Answer: Lynne ­ The only green space we have is currently behind the building. If you
exit behind the building and go behind the Sun Theatre, you will see an area we planted.
We are working with the Lawrence Group to figure out what can be done with that space.
Other potential green space is the Beaux Arts side of the building. The second floor is
crying out for a container gardening. Our only space for physical activity is currently
studios. We try to keep a good relationship with Cardinal Ritter, so we have used their
football field before if we have something that requires a large outdoor space. They have
been good at letting us use their space. One time we had a large balloon launch as part of
a science project and we went to the football field, but we wouldn't be able to do that
here.

Dan R. ­ We've been thinking about a way to have more space where the kids can get out
and move around and get some physical education. We've also been talking to Father
Bussi about his space. We've planted a garden near the Sun Theatre but it will become
passive space due to construction. Father Biondi says we can use some of St. Louis
University's space to plant in their planters ­ that's one way to get some green
interaction. I've been wondering how can we have green space for events.

Question 8: The space west of the Sun Theatre ­ what if it were a double duty pick
up zone in the evening and play area during the day? That way it gives you the
opportunity for release that's not parked up by anybody.
Answer: Dan R. ­ I like the idea.

Dan J. ­ If you use it as a parking solution, then it will not be a maximum use of the
space. Maybe Steve Smith could look at this for you. I would encourage you to not let
the parking challenge wag the dog.

Lynne ­ I really like that solution much more. It feels like that concept expands the
footprint of our school in a much better way.

Dan J. ­ It's an urban playground. It's not without it's challenges, but you can talk with
Steve and his team about that.




                                                                                               
                                                                                                    28
Lynne ­ It's no reason that with the drive through concept it can be there for a certain
period of time and the rest of the time it is closed off for pedestrians. I think that idea has
some real potential there.

Dan J. ­ this is one of those problems that's going to take twenty solutions because it's
the urban environment. We just need to make sure we are not letting parking dictate over
the needs of the kids and the school.

Question 9: How can we get information to your parents and staff to get them
involved in this planning process, in particular the upcoming charrettes?
Answer: Lynne ­ GCAA's and Cardinal Ritter's parents are both very unique
populations that have a lot to share. Our parents would love to get involved in this
planning. Most of them don't live in this area, but they come down here everyday and
would love to spend more time here.

When we had our grand opening, we asked parents to come and participate in a "plan
your city" activity and they really got into it and had some great ideas. So, I know they
would be really engaged with this process.

Dan R. ­ I think I am going to have a separate meeting with them to update parents and
staff about the plan. Often, they don't get the information about what is going on in the
district on that level, but they will be very enthusiastic and engaged with this process.


Action Items:
Team to follow up with school with:
Electronic flyer for email blast
Printed flyer for distribution
Script for call blast to parents
Blurb for website announcement




                                                                                               
                                                                                                    29
GREAT STREETS                                                     STAKEHOLDER
GRAND CENTER                                                  MEETING SUMMARY
Date:                  Tuesday, February 5, 2013
Time:                  3:00 pm
Location:              St. Louis City Hall, Room 230
Attendees:             Alderwoman Marlene Davis, Dan Jay ­ Christner, Rebeccah
                       Bennett ­ Vector Communications
Meeting Purpose:       Stakeholder Interview
Project:               Great Streets Grand Center
Project Number:        12082

Introduction:
Dan Jay opened the meeting thanking Alderwoman Davis for her time. He then
explained how the Great Streets process is building on the recently completed Framework
Plan. He also discussed the team's upcoming public open house, scheduled for Thursday,
February 28, 2013 from 6:00 to 8:00 pm.

1. Question: What is the current perception of Grand Center?
Answer: Grand Center is seen as a vibrant, exciting place for people to live, work and
come play. It used to be lifeless without much energy. There was very little variety in
terms of retail and dining amenities. Now, the area has 12 restaurants and thriving
cultural institutions. It is also an educational hub of the region. You can find educational
institutions in every part of the community, ranging from higher education to elementary
school.

While the area is exciting, there is still room to grow. We need more residents, more
retail and maybe even another mid-sized entertainment venue that would hold 1,000 to
1,200 patrons. The area also needs more diversity. This may come as a result of
attracting a larger variety of retail institutions.

I'd like to see this community become more of a regional and national destination place.
In terms of accomplishing this, Sweetie Pies has helped to put our community on the
map.

2. Question: What are the biggest changes that you'd like to see in Grand Center in
the near future?
Answer: I'd like to see more residential housing in the neighborhood. The true
boundaries of the community go to Page. Near Page, we have a new Save A Lot, PNC
Bank, Walgreens and St. Louis Housing Authority corporate office. There's also a new
coffee shop there.

3. Question: How can Great Streets help spur community improvements?
Answer: People need more comfort. They need streets that are passable. Sidewalks
need to be in good condition. Traffic flow needs to be improved. Also, there should be
more lighting for public safety. In addition to all of this, I'd like to see great signage for



                                                                                                  
                                                                                                       30
our venues that communicates vibrancy and that is easy to see from a distance. We are
an entertainment district and we need flexibility with signage.

Beautification is also really important. We don't need anything over the top, but the
community needs to be made more inviting, engaging and comfortable. One way of
doing this has less to do with landscaping and more to do with human connections. Our
district needs area guides, like they have downtown. These people could be positioned
throughout the community and could direct people to events, activities, venues,
restaurants etc. This would give people the opportunity to do more than they normally
would and could greatly enhance our retail environment.

4. Question: How do we engage the surrounding neighborhoods?
Answer: Few residents live in the Grand Center District proper. There are some to the
west on Grandel Square who are always upset and feel as though they should control
everything. Northwest on Cook, Finney and Windsor we have Covenant Blu residents.
Some are first time homebuyers. They generally like living close to everything and have
developed a strong sense of community. This area is also anchored by older churches
and community minded pastors who look for opportunities to get involved (especially at
Fresh Bible). On the east side of Grand is Renaissance Place, which has public,
affordable and market rate housing. This area has a great support system through Urban
Strategies along with a community center on Delmar. Within walking distance of
Renaissance Place is Kim's Kids (a day care center), the Symphony, St. Alphonsus Rock
Church and others. There are also businesses behind Grand that have been in the
community for 40 to 50 years (ex. American Auto and Sun's Chinese).

5. Question: How do we preserve the neighborhood's stability and bring about
change?
Answer: You must engage stakeholders who really care about the community. They are
willing to do whatever it takes to make the area stronger and better as long as they can be
part of the change and aren't going to be forced out.

6. Question: How do we get more community participation in the planning
process?
Answer: GCI hired Rose Terranova and she is definitely a great resource. Also, a
number of the venues and institutions in the area are now doing more community
outreach because it's good for business and their long-term viability. We are making
progress on this front, but we still have a long ways to go. You all must explain how
your process will add to and not take from the community. Also, be sure to engage faith
leaders like Rev. Dr. Rodney Frances of Washington Tabernacle. Other area churches
include Central Baptist, Progressive, St. Alphonsus Rock etc. I'm also willing to
distribute information about the open house to my constituents.

7. Question: What are the greatest challenges facing this project?
Answer: Implementing anything is a potential problem here. There could be adverse
impacts on businesses, patrons and others, so we must be very thoughtful and careful in
how we proceed. It's important to get buy-in from institutional stakeholders, many of



                                                                                           
                                                                                                31
whom may have divergent agendas. Focus on the positive benefits of giving the area new
life like better access, greater safety, new and enhanced lighting, improved sustainability
etc. All of this, taken together, can outweigh the challenges.

8. Question: What are the qualities of the Grand Center District that must be
preserved and enhanced?
Answer: Arts and cultural institutions like the Arts and Entertainment Council and St.
Louis Artworks need to be preserved. These mid-sized and small organizations are
critical to the areas vibrancy and must not be pushed out.

Action Items:

       Find out from Brenda Fenky whether or not the charrette space is actually
       available or if the build out is proceeding in February.
       Once flyers are created, send them to Alderwoman Davis for distribution and
       dissemination.




                                                                                          
                                                                                               32
GREAT STREETS                                                   STAKEHOLDER
GRAND CENTER                                                MEETING SUMMARY
Date:                  Friday, February 8, 2013
Time:                  1:30 pm
Location:              St. Louis University
Attendees:             Peg Weathers ­ St. Louis University, Assistant Vice President for
                       Community Relations, Dan Jay ­ Christner, Laurel Harrington ­
                       Christner, Rebeccah Bennett ­ Vector Communications
Meeting Purpose:       Stakeholder Interview
Project:               Great Streets Grand Center
Project Number:        12082

Introduction:
Dan Jay opened the meeting thanking Peg Weathers for her willingness to meet with the
team. He explained that stakeholder interviews provide an opportunity for team
members to learn the opportunities and challenges facing the Grand Center community.

1. Question: What is the current perception of Grand Center?
Answer: Our students don't even cross the street into Grand Center and this isn't true of
only underclassmen. Graduate students behave the same way. Our students spend time
on Laclede's Landing, visit Soulard and hang out on Locust, but they don't cross the
street into Grand Center.

2. Question: What is the university's interest in Grand Center?
Answer: Our view of Grand Center has changed over time. Father Biondi has been
involved with GCI forever. We're pro-commerce. Active businesses provide safety for
our students. The more thriving properties there are around us, the better the safety
prospects. A vibrant Grand Center also makes for a more appealing place for students'
parents. Our student development office delivers a message to student prospects about
the area when conducting introductions to the university. This is a far cry from how
things used to be. In the past, we stated in our orientation packets not to cross Lindell.
Clearly, our messages about the surrounding community have changed.

What we care about most is the safety of our students as we deliver an exceptional
educational experience. Safety in the neighborhood used to be a big concern, but now the
perception of safety is a bigger issue than safety itself.

3. Question: Are you familiar with the Framework Plan?
Answer: I've attended two Framework Plan meetings ­ one at the Symphony and the
other at the Scottish Rite.
Background Information (Dan & Laurel): The Framework Plan offers a basic strategy
for moving Grand Center forward and includes narrowing streets, shifting traffic flow,
redesigning parking etc. What we're doing now with the Great Streets project is taking
the plan to the next level of detail. We're validating the basic ideas behind the plan, but
building on its recommendations to prepare for eventual implementation.



                                                                                          
                                                                                               33
4. Question: Are you familiar with the Art Walk?
Answer: Yes, though I don't know where things stand right now.
Background Information (Dan & Laurel): The Art Walk currently includes the SLU
Gallery, Scottish Rite, Public Media Commons, the Sheldon, CAM, Pulitzer and ends at
the burnt church. This is a change from the walk's original design because it includes the
major arts institutions. The second change to the walk involves a new Great Rivers
Greenway (GRG) trail. The trail will follow the old Hodiamont Street car line. GRG is
looking at connecting the trail to the St. Vincent's Greenway and to the Grand Center
District ­ possibly at the burnt church.

5. Question: What are the biggest changes that you'd like to see in Grand Center in
the near future?
Answer: Traffic congestion and street design are major issues. With regard to traffic,
Vandeventer and Compton are how I get into and out of the district these days. I don't
travel down Grand anymore because of the congestion, especially during rush hour.

My issues with street design have to do first and foremost with the size of Lindell.
Lindell is so massive, that it's like a canyon. What can we do to make this more
manageable? Sidewalk to sidewalk it's just so large, which creates a major barrier. My
second design concern deals with streetscape once you're in the district. I've walked up
to City Diner and to Dooley's for lunch, but from the corner of Lindell and Grand to City
Diner, the street is dark and unappealing. The front of the Fox is funky. Craft alliance
sort of sucks, the neon is pretty, but the windows are unappealing. The whole walk is not
interesting. It's a buzz kill. There's very little that's visually engaging and appealing.

6. Question: How do we make this area a major asset for the campus that it's
proud of and publicly connects to?
Answer: You may want to involve Steve Smith in these conversations. He has a great
relationship with Father Biondi and is a trusted informal advisory. His lobbying will
really be important on getting changes made to Theresa. He's one of the best outside
representatives to the university on anything having to do with development. Also, I
think Joe Adorjan is on Grand Center's board and he's a SLU trustee and a dear friend of
Father Biondi's. He was the chairman of our board when he was chair of GCI's board.
Steve and Joe are the guys to deliver what you need or want from SLU to Father. Also,
be sure to include Peter Pierotti. Peter is where you start on anything having to do with
the university's buildings, property and real estate. Peter knows about the university's
plans east of Theresa.

7. Question: What else do you think that we need to know?
Answer: I talked to Father Biondi a long time ago about the Art Walk and he said that
he was willing to talk about it. Peter's talked to him about the concept and I think he
continues to be supportive. The question will always be how much money do you want
from us, are you taking our property and what's this do to the safety of our students.
Sometimes connections to the community aren't a strong appeal for us because we're
worried that our students may adversely be affected and safety always comes first with
us.



                                                                                        
                                                                                             34
Additionally, we care about how these new Grand Center developments can help us
improve the quality of the students we attract. We're interested in learning what other
Jesuit institutions located in urban areas are doing with regard to "town-gown"
interactions and developments.

Lastly, we have a large institutional footprint. We have 4,000 employees here as well as
11 or 12,000 students.

8. Question: Who should we connect with to get SLU students and Parks College
students to participate in the project's electronic survey?
Answer: Contact student development. This is Ken Porterfield's office (he's a VP).
Send me an email and I'll find the right person and get you to him or her.




                                                                                           
                                                                                                35
GREAT STREETS                                                 STAKEHOLDER
GRAND CENTER                                               MEETING SUMMARY
Date:                 Wednesday, February 13, 2013
Time:                 9:00 am
Location:             Clyde C. Miller Academy
Attendees:            Brandon Murray ­ Assistant Principal ­ Clyde C. Miller Academy,
                      Dan Jay ­ Christner, Rachel Powers ­ Vector Communications
Meeting Purpose:      Stakeholder Interview
Project:              Great Streets Grand Center
Project Number:       12082

Introduction:
Rachel Powers opened the meeting thanking Mr. Murray for taking the meeting in
Principal Warmack's absence. (Principal Warmack called in sick for the day. Team
members were not notified before arriving at the school). She discussed the team's
upcoming public open house, scheduled for Thursday, February 28, 2013 from 6:00 to
8:00 pm.

Dan Jay then explained how the Great Streets process is building on the recently
completed Framework Plan.

Question 1: What is the history of Clyde C. Miller (CCM)?
Answer: Clyde C. Miller is a school of choice/magnet school. It was started as a
construction career academy and evolved into a career, technical and college ready
training school, which then evolved into a pathways learning program. There are 13
pathways that students choose from when they enter. We were the first high school with
the dual enrollment of high school curriculum combined with a career and technical
focus. Now there are other schools in the region with the same dual track, so we are not
as unique, but we were the first.

There are post-secondary prep classes that are unique to this school ­ the most functional
path is the Certified Nurses Assistant (CNA) program that allows students to take the test
at age 18 and become licensed. Educators are finding that there are more benefits to this
model than a regular high school model. One reason we are successful is that all seniors
have A and B days where they are off campus doing their internships with some partner
job sites. We have great partners and our students are getting hands on experience before
they even graduate. So they leave here with a leg up already.

Question 2: What is your student population and graduation rate like?
Answer: College placement in 2011 was approximately 89 ­ 93%. We have 796 enrolled
students (9th ­ 12th). We've seen a decrease in enrollment in the last 2 years. We used to
be very selective with enrollment, with a mandatory interview, essay and application
process. Now, we have had to hit the enrollment numbers to keep our budget, so we have
changed our enrollment process slightly. Instead of being as selective as we had been, we
are taking a chance on more individuals. The other reason for decreased numbers is that
the pool of kids is really smaller ­ kids are transferring to the county more in search of


                                                                                        
                                                                                             36
more options. The first four weeks of school we comb our list and go get the kids that we
were expecting to show up but didn't. Often there is a simple mistake with them knowing
where they were supposed to go. The superintendent is really trying to put a stop to inter-
district transfers ­ to the county. Last year, I actually suggested that we go up to the
alternative school and review their list. We saw a few kids who we decided to give a
second chance and enrolled them in our school. This wasn't a popular solution, but those
kids have really stepped up and appreciated that second chance and they are doing great
here.

Question 3: What are your Full Time Equivalent (FTE) staff numbers?
Answer: FTE staff is 76 (54 classroom teachers; the rest are support staff). Hitting our
enrollment numbers is so critical because if we lose ~ 40 kids, it would cost us a teachers
position.

Question 4: What is your transportation like?
Answer: We have a bus system ­ 26 buses through First Student school bus. Eighty
percent of students ride these buses; about 15% ride the Metrobus or walk; 3% have a
parent drop them off and pick them up; and the remaining 2 to 3% drive, which is about
20-25 students. CCM is a first tier school ­ busses drop off at 6:25 am ­ they work three
bus drop off times for the high school, middle school, then elementary.

Question 5: What is your staff parking situation like ­ do they all park on the lot
behind the school?
Answer: Our parking lot is more than sufficient to accommodate staff ­ it's a luxury of
this school that we have about 122 parking spaces.

Question 6: What is the relationship with CCM and Grand Center?
Answer: It's an interesting dynamic, anyone familiar with the neighborhood knows that
CCM sits as a central piece of Grand Ave ­ from us down south it's full of life, great
food, historic, going north it's less maintained, not safe for our kids, etc. There are
resources south that we could use more, we have used SLU's kids as mentors for tutoring
­ they are one of our biggest resources, some kids have gone to the FOX. The other piece
is that Cardinal Ritter is close, Vashon is close ­ there could be fighting issues and we've
had to issue no trespassing orders to keep our kids from going to their schools and their
kids from coming to ours.

Also, because we are centrally located we often have spectators that just want to come to
our sporting events and watch so that adds to our crowds. There is a lot of traffic all
around the school all the time. As for the neighborhood, our kids understand the
territorial rights of the streets better than anyone ­ there are blocks they don't walk down.
I've been to Roosevelt and other schools - and I don't feel unsafe here at all.

Question 7: How is the diversity of the school population?
Answer: We are not as diverse as other schools. We have a large African American
student population, few white students; minuscule numbers of Asian students; and almost
no Middle Eastern students. Other schools going north have larger Bosnian populations



                                                                                           
                                                                                                37
and other ethnicities. Just walking through, someone could label this as a predominantly
African American school. I think this is mostly because we are so far north, where the
south city area has more diversity pockets.

Question 8: What is the street traffic situation like for you?
Answer: It's a fairly busy hub. There is not a day you don't see people walking up and
down Grand. I think it's safe, but my take is that I make my own assumptions about
where I am. My first thing I do is to walk the neighborhood and get a feel for what it
looks like, whose out and about, what do you see. There is a busy park not far from here,
we have a track out back and people come from the apartments and walk our track for
exercise. There is some gang activity not far from us ­ it doesn't really affect us. If the
gangs have issues we don't see it out and about a lot. At another school I worked for,
when the gangs had issues, it impacted our students. There was violence all the time.
There are violent issues here, but it seems that these students are given the same respect
as the FOX and other institution's patrons.

Question 9: In your opinion, what should this part of Grand become ­ what's
possible here to make this a place where people stay and possibly live or should it
just be an institutional corridor?
Answer: Right now it's all about perception. The current perception about the
neighborhood is that it is not a nice neighborhood. People don't come pass the FOX
because they think we are in the middle of the ghetto. There are many things this
neighborhood has to offer.

One issue is the old Carver School behind us that's not being used ­ we'd love to see that
as a regulation size field and track of our own. We are one of the most successful athletic
programs in our conference, but we don't have large enough facilities to encourage sports
participation. Put an athletic field there to hold district games and it draws lots of people
­ locals also come.

A grocery store down this way would be helpful too ­ something like Aldi's. We need
more sit down restaurants down in this area. Church's is very busy. The problem with
getting some of these developments is that developers see low income housing and it
scares them away because they don't think they could make money, but it's not that way
at all. Most complaints I hear from people in the neighborhood and students are why
couldn't we have something like that in our neighborhood. I'll say, last year I walked into
Church's Chicken for lunch right in the middle of it being robbed ­ that's the issue that
we have to overcome because the perception is that there is a possibility of that
happening all the time!

So I'm saying to get residents more active and change the perception of the area, we need
larger athletic facilities, more retail and restaurant opportunities. For example, I love the
Iron Barley bar at 16th Street and I-55, the food is great, the area and safety is
questionable after dark, but it's always busy ­ you know why - it's perception.




                                                                                           
                                                                                                38
Question 10: How is this area of Grand differentiating itself from Grand Center
with a major high school and major hospital?
Answer: I don't know, I think people are so unfamiliar with this piece of real estate we
get visitors who don't realize we are a school. A lot of people are turned off by the VA
hospital being across the street due to the perception of them being war veterans with
mental health issues, and the facilities being dirty.

Along Grand Ave. people don't mind being around college kids, but they don't really like
being around teenagers and high school kids

While I don't agree with this, people's perception is that it's a high school with 800 black
kids. You could flip us with Cardinal Ritter where people perceive them as a private
school, with paid tuition and they must be better and well behaved. But we've had just as
many of their kids come here for a fight after school and have had to escort them off the
premises. Many parents come here and use the other facilities because they have kids
here. This area would be different, but I'm not sure how, but it will have a different feel.

It's the individuals who live here that have the most important input because they will
have to support what's being done here. The people in this neighborhood are people who
enjoy being in close proximity to everything that they need. Bringing in more things is
what they want. I wonder how many of these neighborhood people have actually gone
inside the FOX for a show or simply a tour. Maybe it's because they (the FOX) market to
and advertise with markets that don't really hit the street. Maybe it's because they do not
feel welcome? I took kids to the Black Rep to see Othello and they loved it. I'm a
Chicago guy but St. Louis stays so divided. These institutions only cater to a certain kind
of person instead of looking at how we could kick open the doors and be so much more. I
don't understand why this couldn't happen more. It can be done. You have to do the
legwork and ground work and interact with different people. It's all going back to the
perception that if we open our doors to all kinds of people - can we be successful?

People have a perception of St. Louis City Public Schools also. We have some of the
most professional and intelligent staff that you could ever meet. People don't think large
fights happen in St. Charles but they do and 11 students were suspended. If people come
in and see us they will see we have 100% graduation rate and 80-90% college placement
rate. On a Wednesday afternoon you go to Mike Shannon's for lunch and two of our kids
are interning there. What is an inner city school ­ it's just a school within the city limits.

I would love to have an electronic marquee to highlight our accomplishments out on the
corner of Grand Ave. It's also key to develop more media relationships. People want
this area to be built up; everyone says this was one of the most beautiful inner cities in the
region. This community is full of people who love this area and want to stay here and see
it be built back up.

Question 11: How can we get the word out to your parents, staff and community
about the planning process and upcoming charrettes?




                                                                                            
                                                                                                 39
Answer: We can send out an email flyer, do a phone blast to all of our parents. We could
also send an email or flyer to our internship business partners who would love to see
what's going on and be part of the process. We have a pretty engaged parent community
with about 40 to 100 parents attending our PTO meetings. That's pretty good for a St.
Louis Public high school.

Action Items:
Team to follow up with school with:
Electronic flyer for email blast
Printed flyer for distribution
Script for call blast to parents




                                                                                      
                                                                                           40
Date:                                  January  24,  2013  
Attendees:                             Laurel  Harrington,  Dan  Jay,  Carrie  Falkenrath,  Keith  
                                        RepKo,  Gary  Drikow  
Project:                               Great  Streets  Grand  Center  
Project  Number:                      12082  
Purpose:                               Stakeholder  Meeting  ­  Veterans  Administration  Medical  
                                        Center  John  Cochran  Division  
  
      Action  Items  
                                                                                     Dates  
      No.   Topic                                     Responsible   Initiated   Due         Resolved  
      1     The  VA  is  planning  for            NA                                      
             expansion  on  their  John  
             Cochran  campus  in  Grand  
             Center.  Their  current  
             properties  are  located  
             between  Grand  on  the  east,  
             Spring  on  the  west,  Bell  on  
             the  north  and  Enright  on  
             the  south.  They  also  own  
             the  parking  lot  across  
             Grand  on  the  northwest  
             corner  of  Grand  and  
             Franklin.  The  expansion  
             plans  include  an  inpatient  
             tower,  additional  
             outpatient  clinics  space,  
             spinal  cord  beds  and  a  
             parking  garage  (1,000  cars  
             approx.)  
      2     Expansion  of  the  campus             NA                                      
             by  land  purchase  is  being  
             considered  north  to  
             Windsor  or  south  to  
             Delmar.  Properties  to  the  
             north  (Sextro  Warehouse  
             property)  have  been  
             purchased.  The  
             convenience  store  of  the  
             south  east  corner  of  Bell  
             and  Grand  will  remain.  Bell  
             will  be  closed.  
      3     Multiple  master  plan                  NA                                      
             scenarios  for  the  campus  
             expansion  are  in  play.  


                                                                                                          
                                                                                                               41
      Action  Items  
                                                                                Dates  
      No.   Topic                                   Responsible   Initiated   Due      Resolved  
             Preferred  concepts  orient  
             the  new  additions,  
             outpatient  entrance  and  
             parking  garage  on  the  
             south  side  of  the  campus.  
             These  concepts  are  
             preferred  because  of  their  
             orientation  towards  the  
             heart  of  the  Grand  Center  
             District.  There  is  a  June  
             deadline  for  a  decision  for  
             the  selected  Master  Plan.  
      4     VA  representatives  are  very       NA                                   
             interested  in  the  
             pedestrian-oriented  
             improvements  that  the  
             Great  Streets  initiative  
             promotes.  The  additional  
             spinal  cord  beds  will  
             increase  the  numbers  of  
             patients  with  longer  length  
             of  stay  ­  from  weeks  to  
             months.  Patients  and  family  
             members  will  be  looking  
             for  adjacent  destinations,  
             outings,  services  and  dining  
             choices.  
      5     There  are  an  approximately        VA  ­  shift                       
             1,100-1,500  FTEs  (full  time       change  
             equivalent  workers)  on              number  to  
             campus  at  any  given  time.       CBB  
             The  VA  will  provide  an  
             estimated  number  of  
             people  involved  in  a  shift  
             change.  Shift  change  is  
             between  3:30  and  4:30.  
      6     The  VA  has  concerns  about       NA                                   
             maintaining  and  improving  
             approachable  and  direct  
             routes  for  visitors  and  
             ambulances.  Half  of  John  
             Cochran's  visitors/patients  


                                                                                                    
                                                                                                          42
      Action  Items  
                                                                                    Dates  
      No.   Topic                                       Responsible   Initiated   Due      Resolved  
             are  from  the  St.  Louis  
             region.  Half  are  from  rural  
             areas.  Good  access,  safety  
             and  accessibility  are  
             important  for  both  groups  
             but  are  particularly  
             important  for  the  out  of  
             towners.  Current  patients,  
             visitors  and  staff  use  Grand  
             to  travel  to  the  hospital.  
             Improvements  to  
             Vandeventer  in  the  future  
             could  open  opportunities  to  
             reduce  the  use  of  Grand  for  
             this  type  of  through  traffic.  
      7     Grand  is  the  primary  route          CBB  ­  collect                    
             for  ambulances  also.  The              and  review  
             ED  receives  a  significant             previous  
             number  of  trips  for                   studies  
             emergency  visits  and  
             patient  transport.  CBB  will  
             review  their  previous  
             transportation  study  for  
             John  Cochran  for  this  data.  
             Grand  is  closed  for  Grand  
             Center  events  periodically.  
             Can  an  alternative  route  be  
             established  that  could  be  
             used  in  place  of  Grand  on  a  
             daily  basis?  
      8     The  VA  is  willing  to  send                                              
             out  a  digital  survey  to  its  
             employees  as  part  of  the  
             Great  Street's  project.  The  
             survey  will  focus  on  
             worker's  needs  and  
             transportation  habits.  
  




                                                                                                        
                                                                                                              43
    Appendix D: Focus
     Group Reports




!                       !
                            44
GREAT STREETS                                     EMPLOYEE FOCUS GROUP
GRAND CENTER                                          MEETING SUMMARY
Date:                 Thursday, February 21, 2013
Time:                 10:00 am
Location:             Metropolitan Artists Lofts, Community Room
Attendees:            Grand Center Area Employees
Meeting Purpose:      Employee Focus Group
Project:              Great Streets Grand Center
Project Number:       12082

Overview
On Thursday, February 21, 2013, 16 people who work in or near the Grand Center
District met with members of the Great Streets project team to share their perceptions of
the community's assets, challenges and needs. As part of this process, team members
explained the Great Streets project; solicited background information from attendees via
a written survey; and conducted a facilitated discussion of 10 project related questions.
The insights from the survey and group discussion are presented in this document, though
participants' comments remain confidential.           Team members and community
stakeholders will use the findings from this summary to inform the project's planning
process and decision-making.

Survey Findings

                     BACKGROUND INFORMATION SURVEY
    1. How many years have you worked      Range of Years: 0 years (participants who
       in Grand Center?                    anticipated working in the District in 2013
                                           but were not yet relocated) to 20 years
                                           Average Number of Years: 3.7
    2. Where do you work, with what        Grand Center Inc. ­ 5
       organization?                       Sheldon ­ 2
                                           Craft Alliance ­ 1
                                           St. Louis University ­ 1
                                           St. Louis Symphony ­ 1
                                           University Plaza Apartments ­ 1
                                           Contemporary Art Museum ­ 1
                                           KDHX ­ 2
                                           Plush ­ 1
                                           Metropolitan Artists Lofts ­ 1
    3. How do you get to work?             Car ­ 13
                                           Bike ­ 1
                                           Bike & Car ­ 2
Note:&&The!numbers!presented!in!the!right!column!indicate!the!number!of!focus!
group!participants!who!gave!the!particular!response.


!                                                                                      !
                                                                                            45
!
                      BACKGROUND INFORMATION SURVEY
    4. Where do you park?                    Off Street Parking
                                              Parking lot across from office ­ 1
                                              Lot behind Third Baptist Church ­ 3
                                              Lot 11 ­ 1
                                              Work parking lot (private lot) ­ 4
                                              Scottish Rite garage ­ 1
                                              Olive garage ­ 1
                                              Lot adjacent to Powell Hall (owned by
                                                Grand Center) ­ 1
                                              Lot at Metropolitan Artists Lofts ­ 1
                                              Gated parking lot ­ 1
                                             On Street Parking
                                              Spring or Washington ­ 1
                                              Street ­ 1
                                              In the office (bicycle) ­ 1
    5. What are your standard work            8:00 am to 4:00 pm ­ 1
       hours?                                 8:00 am to 5:00 pm ­ 2
                                              8:00 am to 8:00 pm ­ 1
                                              8:30 am to 5:00 pm ­ 3
                                              9:00 am to 5:00 pm ­ 2
                                              9:00 am to 5:00 pm on weekdays
                                                (sometimes with extra hours), and nights
                                                and weekends ­ 5
                                              10:00 am to 6:00 pm on weekdays, and
                                                nights and weekends (extra hours
                                                episodically, regular schedule ­ 3:00 pm to
                                                1:00 am) ­ 2

Discussion Findings
After focus group participants submitted their brief surveys, project team members
engaged them in facilitated discussions about their Grand Center experiences. They were
asked questions about their perceptions of the area, the qualities and characteristics of the
neighborhood that should be enhanced, the challenges they encounter working in the
district, frequent travel / traffic conditions, their transportation choices, and the work and
non-work amenities they would like the area to have. Their responses to these questions
have been compiled and are presented in the tables on the following pages.




!                                                                                           !
                                                                                                 46
     Discussion Findings

                     PERCEPTIONS                                                  ASSETS                                              CHALLENGES
     As someone who works in Grand Center, what are          What qualities / characteristics of the District        What are the biggest challenges you experience
     your perceptions of the District?                       should be enhanced or preserved?                        working in the District?
     Grand Center is:                                         District's unique architecture. The area needs          Limited bike accessibility. Crossing over the
      Underutilized in terms of general activity.               architecturally integrated lighting design to play      train tracks to get into the area from south of the
         There are lots of focused /event activities, but       up this feature                                         neighborhood is scary
         the feeling of general excitement, action and                                                                Prevailing perception of the area as unsafe.
                                                              Institutions / organizations' willingness to work
         buzz isn't consistently here. Not enough foot                                                                  Depending on what street you're on and its
                                                              together to strengthen the District and enhance
         traffic                                                                                                        lighting, you may feel vulnerable
                                                              the community's quality of life
      Full of potential                                                                                               Lighting on side streets i.e. Washington, by
                                                              Entertainment and dining options. The District
      Improving ­ coming to life                                                                                        CAM and Olive West is too sparse
                                                              offers lots of opportunities for activity, fun and
      Growing, but still sparse                               socializing. These can be enhanced by an                Too few amenities between and among cultural
      Disconnected from residents. Some people live           increase in variety, especially with regard to the        institutions that encourage loitering / staying
         in the neighborhood, but you rarely see them         local dining scene                                        awhile
      Scary at night, depending on the block you are                                                                  Lack of foot traffic is an issue for the museums.
                                                              The number of arts organizations located in the
         on. This sense may be more common among                                                                        At present, they are destinations, but they don't
                                                              community. This is a great strength that has
         visitors, especially those who don't live in the                                                               get casual visitors
                                                              helped to define the character of the community.
         city                                                 It's a key component of Grand Center's identity,        Big surface parking lots are an eyesore
      A place where people work in silos. There are           its unique signature                                    Limited lunch options. You can't just walk out
         not enough intentional, deliberate connections,                                                                the door and find tasty, affordable options. You
                                                              Concerts in the park. All of Grand Center's
         though this is beginning to change                                                                             often have to drive for food and for variety
                                                              outdoor events make the District come alive.
      Dangerous. It's often unsafe crossing Grand.            They attract visitors who do not usually come to        To get to the new MetroLink station, you have
         Driving and parking can also be unsafe. Parking      the area for other cultural arts and entertainment        to catch a bus. This involves a wait and is more
         on Grand can be tricky since cars speed.             options / experiences                                     of a deterrent to employee and visitor use. It's
         Pedestrians cross at all places along the street.                                                              not easy to walk from the station to the different
         Drivers are unfamiliar with traffic signals          Ease of accessing public transportation. The              destinations
                                                              new MetroLink station is great
      An area that is perceived as "snooty." Though                                                                   Limited knowledge about what's here,
         art is for everyone, artistic places don't always                                                              happening and available. We need public
         feel welcoming. They can feel eclectic and                                                                     displays that provide programming information
         inaccessible to the average person.                                                                            for the area
      A great neighborhood. The diversity of artistic                                                                 Not enough signage. The District needs
         events and venues, the dining etc. make it                                                                     emblems on the side of buildings that state this
         appealing. "You can make a whole night here."                                                                  is Grand Center. There needs to be more
      On the verge of something big ­ significant                                                                       marketing of the community. The area needs




47
                                                                                                                        more wayfinding

     !                                                                                                                                                                   !
                                                   TRANSPORTATION OPTIONS & EXPERIENCES
                 MODE OF                          WORK TRAVEL                          PARKING EXPERIENCE                   WE-CAR ALTERNATIVE
           TRANSPORTATION                 What are your travel experiences         What is your experience of parking
     What mode of transportation do                                                                                      Would you consider using We-Car
                                          like coming to and leaving from          in the District?                      as a transportation option? Why or
     you use to get to work?
                                          work?                                                                          why not?
      Car ­ 16 (all participants stated   Coming To Work                            People complain about paying to       We-Car may be something that
      that they sometimes drive to and                                              park. It's a hassle for many          really works for students who
                                           Grand can be really great, before 9
      from work)                                                                    because they don't keep a lot of      occasionally need cars
                                           am or be really awful later. It can
      Public Transit ­ 2                                                            change on them. The District
                                           take an enormous amount of time                                                Some residents might give up their
      Walk ­ 1 (from Central West End)                                              should consider credit card
                                           to get from Olive to Washington                                                cars if this was a real option. It is
      Bike ­ 3 (more would if it were                                               parking payment options given
                                                                                                                          cheaper than maintaining your
      safer)                               The meters on Grand create               people's movement away from
                                                                                                                          own vehicle
      Other ­ Participants stated that     bottlenecks and dangerous                cash. Also, people often complain
      they would like to see unique        conditions. Sometimes having             about the cost of street parking,
      modes of transportation in the       cars on the street is confusing;         but compared to other places, the
      District like horse and buggies,     drivers weave in and out                 parking fees are reasonable
      rickshaws and scooters               We need all the lanes on Grand to        Some organizations have parking
                                           be open                                  for their employees. Usually, this
                                           We started using Vandeventer to          parking is limited
                                           get to work, but it is not paved and     We park on the street
                                           causes issues for cars' alignment.
                                                                                    I pay for monthly parking at the
                                           It's an obstacle course
                                                                                    Scottish Rite. The parking fees
                                           Compton has lots of four-way             here change depending on if
                                           stops, so it isn't as convenient,        there's a show at the Fox. My
                                           efficient or easy to use                 work, however, often requires that
                                                                                    I start my days early and end them
                                          Leaving Work
                                                                                    late. So, on days with a show I
                                           The light at Washington and              pay more
                                           Grand takes forever. Drives get
                                           stuck waiting for long periods of
                                           time
                                           Street lighting makes it difficult to
                                           see people walking between cars




48
     !
                           WORK AMENITIES                                                                  NON-WORK AMENITIES
     What would improve your work experience in Grand Center?                         What would make you want to spend more time in Grand Center outside
                                                                                      of work hours and on the weekends?
      It would be nice to see more cab traffic in the area. The existing service is    More residents
      slow and not very reliable
                                                                                       More residential shops and conveniences like a neighborhood grocery,
      The organizations in the District need to do even more to cross-market each      tasteful and healthy delis or bodegas, dry cleaners. Employees could
      others businesses and activities. Some organizations offer District              benefit from these amenities as well, especially before and after work and
      employee discounts (like Plush)                                                  during lunch
      The area needs a greater variety of places to work that are outside of           More programs and activities for children and families. Though the area
      traditional work spaces and offices                                              boasts lots of programs for kids, they are not very widely publicized
      Grand Center needs better, broader wi-fi service. Connecting to the loop         A more robust bar scene and more dining options would get people to stay
      media hub (which currently spans from the Lions Gate to the History              after shows. There needs to be enhanced dining and socializing on Grand
      Museum) will enhance fiber connectivity and enable one gigabyte speed            and along the side streets
      connections. Now is the time to invest in the District's communications
                                                                                       A food truck park. It's hard to get into restaurants at their peak times and
      infrastructure. Giga bit fiber Internet will enhance the life of the
                                                                                       the local dining experience is not cheap. Grabbing lunch can be an
      neighborhood. It improves uplink capability and will make the area a great
                                                                                       expensive enterprise
      place for entrepreneurs and investors. (Note: Steve Ley at KDHX is
      willing to discuss the loop media hub in greater detail with anyone who is       More pet stations and receptacles for pet waste
      interested.)                                                                     Landscaping ­ flowers and trees that interrupt the pavement and create
                                                                                       more beauty throughout the community
                                                                                       More amenities for the disabled. It is hard for them to move around the
                                                                                       District
                                                                                       Redesign of the Tilted Plane. It is awkward and underutilized. It just looks
                                                                                       like the yard of a building




49
     !                                                                                                                                                                !
GREAT STREETS                                          RESIDENT FOCUS GROUP
GRAND CENTER                                               MEETING SUMMARY
Date:                    Tuesday February 26, 2013
Time:                    6:00 pm
Location:                Metropolitan Artist Loft Community Room
Attendees:               Grand Center Area Residents, Laurel Harrington ­ Christner,
                         Rachel Powers ­ Vector Communications
Meeting Purpose:         Residential Focus Group
Project:                 Great Streets Grand Center
Project Number:          12082

Overview
On Tuesday, February 26, 2013, 12 people who live in or near the Grand Center District
met with members of the Great Streets project team to share their perceptions of the
community's assets, challenges and needs. As part of this process, team members
explained the Great Streets project; solicited background information from attendees via
a written survey; and conducted a facilitated discussion of nine project related questions.
The insights from the survey and group discussion are presented in this document, though
participants' comments remain confidential. Team members and community
stakeholders will use the findings from this summary to inform the project's planning
process and decision-making.

Survey Findings

                            BACKGROUND INFORMATION SURVEY
    6. How many years have you lived in Grand     Range of Years: 6 months to 31 years (several
       Center?                                    participants from newly opened Metropolitan
                                                  Artist Loft development)
                                                    Average Number of Years: 4.6
    7. Where do you live?                           Metropolitan Artist Loft ­ 9
                                                    Personal Residence (Washington Ave.) ­ 2
                                                    Personal Residents (Olive St.) ­ 1
    8. What forms of transportation do you use      Car exclusively ­ 4
       most often?                                  Car & Bike ­ 2
                                                    Car & Metro ­ 2
                                                    Car & Walk -4
                                                    Bike & Car ­ 2
                                                    Scooter - 1
    9. Where do you park?                           Garage ­ 4
                                                    Resident parking lot ­ 4
                                                    On-street parking ­ 1
                                                    Scottish Rite parking ­1
                                                    Personal garage ­ 1
                                                    Anywhere free - 1




!                                                                                          !
                                                                                                  50
Discussion Findings

After focus group participants submitted their brief surveys, project team members engaged them in
facilitated discussions about their Grand Center experiences. They were asked questions about their
perceptions of the area, the qualities and characteristics of the neighborhood that should be enhanced, the
challenges they encounter living in the district, frequent travel / traffic conditions, their transportation
choices, and the residential amenities they would like the area to have. Their responses to these questions
have been compiled and are presented in the tables on the following pages.

            PERCEPTIONS                                ASSETS                           CHALLENGES
    Exciting                               Prime location close to interstates    No grocery store - "we're on
    Creative                               Community Programming -                the edge of a food desert"
    Diverse                                Dancing in the streets party; 1st      No benches for milling around
    Has potential for more growth          Night; 1st Fridays; music series       - they are currently only in the
    Night time has more action with        in summertime - people come in         Renaissance Grand community
    the lighting                           and walk around                        where there isn't much foot
    Daytime is not very inviting -         Grand Center Inc. as a                 traffic
    kind of drab and dull                  coordinating body                      Lack of security - CID no
    Very transient - spurts of activity    Small radius with lots of arts         longer patrolling
    then it's really dead                  concentrated                           Lots of dog poop on the
    All district hotspots need to be       Close to work                          ground - lack of trash bins
    more connected with each other         Micro-breweries                        with bags
    Needs to be more pedestrian            Fireworks - they add vibrancy to       Not enough events = not
    friendly - even on sidewalks           neighborhood                           enough retail sales
    Too many buildings being torn          Financial Accessibility -              Lack of accessible recycling
    down to add parking garages            Affordable                             on the streets
    People think it is dangerous           Geographic Accessibility - close       Lack of holiday lighting to
    because of the undeveloped areas       to everything                          liven up the streets
    in the district and surrounding        Diversity - community make up          Dull streets
    area to the north                      rules people in not out                Lack of/barriers to available
    Near one of the worst areas of the     SLU as a partner - they provide        licenses for street vendors
    city                                   dog park, critical mass of people,     Lack of outdoor eating - café's
    Too many meters                        Amenities like US Bank, security       with outdoor seating = not
    Quieter and safer than other areas     patrols, maintained properties,        inviting
    of the city i.e. union station         galleries                              Having to depend on a car
    Secure resources                       Conglomeration of Arts,                because closest amenities like
    Great architecture that is             entertainment, and museums             grocery stores are too far
    unnoticed                              Unique venues - i.e. Jazz at the       Empty rich architecture
    Really enjoy living here               Bistro, Pulitzer, CAM, Fox,            Need more residential units
    Vibrant                                Sheldon and Sheldon Galleries,         People don't stick around this
    Noisy                                  etc.                                   area before or after shows
    Arts and Entertainment area for        First Fridays to allow people          Restaurants don't stay open
    St. Louis                              free/reduced cost entry to             late - not beneficial for actual
                                           galleries                              residents
                                           Well managed public events             No kiosks or information
                                           VA investments in the area             about what is
                                                                                  happening/available in the area
                                                                                  Strauss park kiosk sign is
                                                                                  incomplete and inaccurate



        !                                                                                              !
                                                                                                            51
                                 CHALLENGES Continued
    Serious parking problem - too many tickets distributed
    Each venue has their own parking, versus centralizing parking
    Street parking is very difficult - due to violation tickets
    Need more lighting, especially on side streets and up to the Rock Church where it gets more
    "dodgy"
 Sidewalks are not ADA compliant - too narrow
 No community branding to delineate its boundaries
 Current district signage is too small
Not a kid-friendly environment - especially as a resident



                  TRANSPORTATION OPTIONS & EXPERIENCES
What is your experience leaving Grand Center?
 Traffic on Grand Ave. in the evenings and weekends is "crazy"
 Police chases occur down Grand Ave. is a safety concern
 Ambulances along Grand Ave. cause congestion
 Sport bike drag racing on Grand Ave. at night after midnight is a nuisance

What is your experience returning to Grand Center?
 Fox traffic in the evenings cause residents to divert to different routes or wait extra
  time to enter district

What parking issues have you experienced?
 Too many sporadic lots and no centralized parking system
 Too many meters
 Not enough residential parking available

What are you views of We Car?
 4 of 9 respondents would utilize We Car
 More convenient than public transit - especially if shopping
 Easily accessible
 Affordable
 Provides another back up option if main vehicle is out of commission




!                                                                                                 !
                                                                                                      52
!


                            RESIDENTIAL AMENITIES

 Develop a mini-mart/deli/Wholefoods market/store
 Develop more housing units to create more density - all types: single family and multi-
 family
 Create a mural depicting the district's history
 Host more community events like outdoor movies
 Encourage restaurants to incorporate French style doors that open up and spill out onto
 the sidewalk to bring life to the sidewalk and more customers in to enjoy
 Residential parking passes
 Install community speakers that play music outdoors from businesses
 More trees
 Urban garden
 Farmers market
 24 hour coffee places like Coffee Cartel in the Central West End neighborhood
 Central parking for the district
 More outside concerts
 Brighter, non-historic lighting
 Way finding and education campaign for public to access district from streets other
 than Grand Ave.
 Open Community Art Studio where public can see art happening - like at Craft
 Alliance
 Poop bags receptacles for dog walking
 Dog walking patrols to fine people for not picking up dog poop
 More jobs/places to work
 Projection art on buildings
 Changeable artwork along "art paths"
 Bench design contest
 More restaurants and boutiques
 "Pretty" sidewalks - artistic, dyed, appealing
 Daily outdoor music in Strauss Park
 More outdoor public art - i.e. sculptures, projection on buildings, etc.
 Street art vendors
 More green space
 Tap more local artist to provide art
 Bridge for SLU cross walks
 Signs for Fox crosswalks
 Artwork on the building billboards
 More bike-friendly amenities
 Outdoor film festival
 Add a residential trolley like at Wing Haven community to get residents to various
 amenities in and near to the district
 Widen sidewalks to slow down traffic and allow for more pedestrians
 Connect area better to public transit



!                                                                                   !
                                                                                           53
  Appendix E:
   Stakeholder
Committee Meeting
   Summaries




                    54
Art Walk Committee                                                           Grand Center
January 10, 2013 Discussion Summary                                   Great Streets Project

Overview
The Art Walk Committee met with members of the Great Streets (GS) team on Thursday,
January 10, 2013. Ten committee members and Grand Center Inc. (GCI) representatives
participated in the meeting, which was held to accomplish the following objectives:
    Acquaint committee members with the Great Streets team;
    Provide the team with information on the committee's work to date; and
    Identify critical corridor issues that the team needs to consider during the planning
    process.
A list of meeting attendees is presented below.

Attendance

Committee Members & GCI Representatives:
Lisa Melandri                  Contemporary Art Museum St. Louis (CAM)
Peter Pierotti                 St. Louis University
Paul Reuter                    The Sheldon
Rich Baker                     Fox Associates, LLC
Kristina Van Dyke              Pulitzer Foundation for the Arts
Paul DeMerath                  Scottish Rite Cathedral Preservation Association, Inc.
Jack Galmiche                  Nine Network of Public Media
Vince Schoemehl                Grand Center Inc.
Don Stastny                    Stastny Architects
Ken Christian                  Stellar Management

Project Team Members:
Dan Jay                        Christner
Laurel Harrington              Christner
Peter Schaudt                  Hoerr Schaudt Landscape Architects
Jon Brooke                     Hoerr Schaudt Landscape Architects
Rebeccah Bennett               Vector Communications

Discussion Summary

 Discussion Topic    Comments
  Meeting            Vince, GCI:
  Purpose            The work of this committee is being funded by the NEA grant and by the
                     match that has come from the institutions along the Art Walk (AW). This
                     group is going to select a designer who is going to develop detailed designs.
                     What we want to do today is to build on the outcomes of yesterday's three-
                     hour meeting. We've got some direction and now we need to coordinate
                     this committee's work with the GS team's work.




                                                                                                     55
Discussion Topic   Comments
 Meeting           Vince, GCI:
 Purpose           Any place along the AW's private right of way that intersects with the
 Continued         public right of way will fall to the committee's consultant to design. There
                   will be common design elements between the AW consultant and GS
                   consultants. Today, we want to understand the implications of the GS
                   design on the work of the AW consultant.
                   Dan, Great Streets:
                   Great Streets will provide oversight on big issues like traffic, street
                   narrowing opportunities, and overall planning. The team will be
                   collaborative in its approach.
 AW ­ SLUMA        Kristina, Pulitzer:
 & Scottish Rite   AW begins on Lindell and runs behind St. Louis University's Museum of
 Segment           Art (SLUMA). It appears as though there aren't plans to rework this area.
                   We could look at the side of the building and possibly light the back of the
                   building.
                   Rich, Fox: Father would like to see the backyard activated and used more
                   often. The new designer will help the group determine signage and lighting
                   needs.
                   Kristina, Pulitzer: Moving from SLUMA, the AW crosses through the
                   Scottish Rite parking lot.
                   Paul, Scottish Rite: There are several possibilities. One thing that might
                   be appealing would be to have an elevated skywalk. We'd have to address
                   security concerns. There's also the issue of the alley being private property.
                   The alley also provides access to all of the utilities and deliveries. If you
                   elevate the AW, it could swing east, attach to the west side of garage and
                   make a side walk for the media commons and grassy knoll. Bringing it
                   down to grade early on would be an early win.
                   Vince, GCI: There is an abrupt seven foot grade differential between the
                   backyard of SLUMA and the parking lot. We need a solution to come to
                   grade on the SLUMA property. We could also stay at seven feet and go up
                   to that level.
 AW ­ Media        Kristina, Pulitzer: The media commons portion of the AW is clearly
 Commons &         under way.
 Sheldon
                   Paul, Sheldon: The AW would veer on the west side of the Sheldon
 Segment
                   annex. HVAC equipment is located here and would require a small fortune
                   to move. The walkway would go around this equipment initially ­ a
                   wooden fence would shield the equipment from the commons. When we
                   reconfigure the parking lots, the AW would have about a 25-foot width
                   here.
                   Essentially, we have a three-story brick wall that is about 240 feet long.
                   This wall will be the pallet for whatever art gets placed here for the AW.
                   We've talked about a vertical garden or high tech installation or some
                   combination of the two. We have a 25 member board/staff committee
                   that's been considering ideas for the Sheldon West walkway for 18 months.




                                                                                                    56
Discussion Topic   Comments
 AW ­ Media        Paul, Sheldon:
 Commons &         Our committee is charged with reaching consensus on what the Sheldon
 Sheldon           will do. The AW then comes out on the sidewalk at the front entrance of
 Segment           the Sheldon. Here, there's a small gate and we would likely place a piece
 Continued         of sculpture here as a focal point. The sculpture would signal that the
                   Sheldon Art Galleries are inside and would be a fairly permanent piece of
                   art.
                   Gil Martin will be recommending art for our brick wall. At the pedestrian
                   level, the wall will likely have changing art exhibits like street art or
                   murals.
                   Jack, Nine Network: To the north, we designed the alley so that there's a
                   transition piece from the public media commons to the west side of the
                   Sheldon. It orients traffic from the commons visually to the Sheldon's west
                   side. The design for the HVAC equipment would be temporary ­ for
                   cosmetics purposes and would help dampen ambient noise. The designer
                   that the group is engaging would look at the transition from the media
                   commons to the Sheldon's space.
                   The way we designed the public media commons, a large LED screen on
                   back of the Sheldon will call your attention from the east side of SLUMA to
                   the Sheldon. The floor of the plaza is tilted to go to the left.
                   Rich, Fox: Do you have a grade difference?
                   Paul, Sheldon: The Sheldon has a slight grade issue. We want to get the
                   path open when the media commons opens. Our construction of our
                   walkway segment would take place in the summer to get the two middle
                   sections of the AW completely open, though the art may not be on the walls
                   by then. Plan B would to construct a year and a half from now.
                   Jack, Nine Network: Also, improvements could be made to the SLUMA
                   segment of the AW at the same time as we work on the media commons
                   and Sheldon portion. The public media commons segment will be ready
                   this summer.
                   Paul, Scottish Rite: The AW is a pedestrian throughway that would be
                   open all night. One challenge with being open all night is the history of
                   thefts in the parking garage. We have to consider how to secure the garage.
 AW ­ CAM /        Kristina, Pulitzer: From the Sheldon we've rethought our initial AW
 Pulitzer          plans. We now want it to move past the Pulitzer and Contemporary Art
 Segment           Museum and connect with the burnt church on Spring. We'll need
                   communication and signage for this segment of the walk. The Pulitzer and
                   CAM want the courtyard to have some shared programming, but also want
                   to distinguish themselves from each other. Our institutions don't want to
                   develop space so much as frontage.
                   Laurel, Great Streets: You might still think about the AW being a link.
                   It's not necessarily one or the other. You can focus on streetscape and still
                   have good pedestrian linkage. Loops are good.




                                                                                                   57
Discussion Topic   Comments
 AW ­ CAM /        Jack, Nine Network: In terms of marketing for the AW, it makes sense to
 Pulitzer          have arts institutions involved in it.
 Segment
                   Kristina, Pulitzer: The Pixel Project will be executed the spring of 2014.
 Continued
                   Young designers will propose projects and will have a six-month run, after
                   which the space will go dark again.
                   Laurel, Great Streets: Have you thought about the infrastructure of the
                   space, a canvas that the artist works within? Infrastructure could help
                   establish standards while maintaining flexibility. It could be a framed space
                   that's like a gallery and when its not being used it can hold its own.
                   Lisa, CAM: There will be architectural projects in this space as well, so
                   keep this in mind.
                   Rich, Fox: Keep in mind that though this won't be integral to the AW,
                   there does have to be an easy way to get into it. Will the AW be on both
                   sides of the street?
                   Vince, GCI: I gravitate to the idea of creating a visual arts node within the
                   district. Maybe something in the street, because it's almost at the peak. For
                   example, think about the islands on Waterman Ave., by New City School.
                   It could serve as a transition point that breaks the street up a little bit.
                   Could you maybe even do a traffic circle here?
                   Lisa, CAM: We've begun a First Fridays (FF) of visual arts organizations
                   and recently asked how many people attend FF? The Contemporary has the
                   largest number of participants at FF, but the numbers diminish the further
                   people have to walk up the street. So there is already an ambulatory
                   direction up Washington and it comes apart as you continue on. This
                   attrition challenge could be a signage issue or a distance issue.
                   Paul, Sheldon: Our plan is to build ??? over to the Pulitzer. This will
                   establish an even more natural connection between the Sheldon, CAM and
                   the Pulitzer. And the walkway will continue to be there. We envision a
                   second story bridge connecting the existing buildings and the AW would go
                   underneath this bridge.
                   Vince, GCI: When the media commons is completed, it'll join First
                   Friday.
 AW ­ The          Kristina, Pulitzer: What are the plans for the burnt church?
 Burnt Church
                   Vince, GCI: The plans are completed. We have construction drawings.
 Segment
                   The design is to open the sides of the church ­ cut the windows down to the
                   ground so that the north wall is permeable and then support the iron frame
                   with buried cantilevered support systems. There would be no roof on this
                   structure. Then, there is also a design to create a park like setting in the
                   green space to the north. We don't have any clear programming for this
                   space. It would sort of function as a park and this might be funded by in
                   part by GRG.




                                                                                                   58
Discussion Topic   Comments
 AW ­ The          Kristina, Pulitzer: You can see that this is a very exciting design
 Committee's       challenge. The sooner we can act, the more effective the AW conversation
 Design            will be and there won't be this hole in the plan that's waiting to be filled.
 Consultant        We're trying to balance moving this project forward and attracting national
                   interest.
                   Laurel, Great Streets: Are you putting an RFP out for all phases of the
                   AW?
                   Kristina, Pulitzer: Yes.
                   Jack, Nine Network: The big issue we talked about is the coherence of the
                   AW, so we want one contractor.
                   Kristina, Pulitzer: One contender is Ben Gilmartin who designed the
                   commons. However, we're considering whether we should open it up to
                   other contenders.
                   Lisa, CAM: We're not starting at ground zero, but we are dealing with a
                   host of institutions with there own missions. Isn't this an opportunity to get
                   different people to interpret the vision for our institutions?
                   Jack, Nine Network: On this phase of work we have a very modest
                   amount of money to engage someone. So, for the amount of money we
                   have, we're focused on how we connect these institutions along a walkway.
                   Rich, Fox: We want to have phase one ­ the Media Commons and
                   Sheldon ­ kick-off. After this, the new consultant could tie the rest of the
                   AW into this piece.
                   Kristina, Pulitzer: I think it would be interesting to here from you about
                   how to expedite this process while still remaining open.
                   Dan, Great Streets: You cut the ribbon in 2013 and the AW should be
                   totally transformed by 2018. This is more about art than a hardscape
                   pattern that continues all the way through. This is about an infrastructure
                   that allows for art integration all along the corridor. Keep your attention on
                   this.
                   Peter, Great Streets: I recommend that you invite a shortlist of people to
                   come to St. Louis with general ideas. Have an in depth interview with them
                   and then hire a designer. You want to hire someone with a philosophy.
                   This would be a quicker more expedited process than a competition.
                   Rich, Fox: This could be a quick win.
                   Laurel, Great Streets: When you have multiple people, you really don't
                   have the strong cohesive sense that you want.
                   Peter, Great Streets: The challenge for the designer will be the ground
                   plane ­ the cross section of how this experience goes through the space to
                   actually make the walk itself sculptural.




                                                                                                    59
Discussion Topic   Comments
 AW ­ Phase IV     Rich, Fox: We didn't talk about phase IV, the part of the AW that's across
                   from the Fox's parking lot. This may be part of the AW or something
                   different.
                   Paul, Sheldon: Also as part of Phase IV, we may have the AW access the
                   Veterans Hospital. This helps to establish the tie in to Grand Center.
                   Vince, GCI: Access and the AW do not have to be mutually exclusive.
                   The AW's purpose is to connect the visual arts institutions in the
                   neighborhood. From an access standpoint, there are 1,500 employees at the
                   VA and we get none of them, because there's no comfortable access.
                   However, I do think this is separate from the scope of what you want the
                   AW consultant to do.
 AW ­              Don, Framework Plan: As the AW has evolved, it serves as a kind of
 Collaboration     connection to the institutions and satisfies the idea of the front porch for all
 Between The       of these institutions. The palette of what could happen on Washington is
 Great Streets     very rich. The Great Streets team is going to have to deal with circulation,
 Team & AW         traffic, gateways at the ends of the district etc. There will be an overlay of
 Designer          what the AW is functionally... This is an area that is going to require strong
                   collaboration. The AW designer could give programmatic definition...
                   Paul, Sheldon: Does the AW designer take precedence on the portion that
                   goes down the Washington Ave. sidewalk? How narrowly defined is the
                   AW design as it goes down a public sidewalk?
                   Don, Framework Plan: If you can get a designer on board by mid-
                   February, they could really work with us as we make key choices.
                   Paul, Sheldon: The designer needs to be on board then quickly because
                   the GS team is on a tight schedule.
 AW ­ Possible     Kristina, Pulitzer: Does the GS team have ideas for designers?
 AW Designers      Obviously we're considering Ben and Heather at Sungho. We need to
                   develop a condensed list and reach out and get them in here.
                   Great Streets Team: You might want to consider Schaudt, Cliff Garden
                   and Pentagram. Meredith McKinley may also have some good suggestions.
 AW ­ Making       Jack, Nine Network: Let's take a look at how the AW becomes cohesive.
 The AW            We need to look at the considerations that are important beyond way
 Cohesive          finding.
                   Peter, Great Streets: Way finding needs to be integrated with design.
                   Laurel, Great Streets: The AW needs to own pieces that come over the
                   street. This is excluded from Great Street's contract. But it does need to be
                   coordinated with Great Street's work in a most amazing way. We can
                   create the gateways / entrance, especially at Washington and Grand that
                   draws people to the AW.
                   Lisa, CAM: This is great, but we need to be mindful that a three-
                   dimensional beacon can also be a barrier.




                                                                                                      60
Discussion Topic   Comments
 AW ­ Making       Don, Framework Plan: You traditionally think of the AW as entering at
 Expanding The     one point and leaving at another. But the AW can take on another layer of
 AW's              functionality, including dispersing people to cultural and visual institutions.
 Functionality     It can take on a richer and richer palette.
                   Paul, Scottish Rite: We can highlight the history of Grand and
                   Washington as well. We could put up a vignette or something that educates
                   area visitors to this fact.
 AW ­ Next         Vince, GCI: Our next steps should be to invite contenders ­ Heather of
 Steps             Sungho and Ben GilMartin. Jack and Kristina can receive the nominations
                   for the third candidate from committee members and Great Streets team by
                   COB on Monday, January 18th.
                   Paul, Sheldon: All candidates should be sent to the committee for review
                   and comment.
                   Don, Framework Plan: I think you'll need to put an RFQ on the street. If
                   we want to move ahead very quickly, then it's an abbreviated process. A
                   one pager could be sent to preferred candidates and they could commit to an
                   interview 30 days out. Ask them to provide things before the interview like
                   a statement of design intent, an example of three projects and some brief
                   resumes. Set the budget and then ask them their scope of services within
                   this budget. Have them commit to being able to start in an aggressive way.
                   Kristina could write the letter of invitation and I could do the one-pager.
                   These need to be sent out ASAP.




                                                                                                     61
Grandel Square / Grand Center Joint Committee                           Grand Center
January 11, 2013 Discussion Summary                               Great Streets Project

Overview
The joint Grandel Square and Grand Center Groups met with members of the Great
Streets (GS) team on Friday, January 11, 2013. Twelve committee members and Grand
Center Inc. (GCI) representatives participated in the meeting, which was held to
accomplish the following objectives:
    Acquaint committee members with the Great Streets team;
    Provide the team with information on the committee's work to date; and
    Identify critical corridor issues that the team needs to consider during the planning
    process.
A list of meeting attendees is presented below.

Attendance

Committee Members & GCI Representatives:
Dan Rubright                   Grand Center Arts Academy
Vince, GCI Schoemehl           Grand Center Inc.
Richard Baker                  FOX Associates
Jerry Bryan                    Third Baptist Church / Grand Center Board
Becky James ­ Hatter           Big Brothers, Big Sisters
Fred Bronstein                 St. Louis Symphony
Boo McLoughlin                 Craft Alliance
Bev Hacker                     KDHX
Debbie Pyzyk                   University Club, Kohner Properties
Don Stastny                    Stastny Bauer Architects LLC
Janice Henry                   Resident
David Belski                   Rodemyer Christel Inc.
Leon Henderson                 Cardinal Ritter College Prep High School

Project Team Members:
Dan Jay                        Christner
Laurel Harrington              Christner
Peter Schaudt                  Hoerr Schaudt
Jon Brooke                     Hoerr Schaudt
Rachel Powers                  Vector Communications

Discussion Summary

 Discussion Topic    Comments
  Meeting            Vince, GCI:
  Purpose            This is the only meeting with two corridors coming together. We are
                     trying to address what we are going to do with the tilted plane at



                                                                                            62
                  Grand and Grandel. There will be a lot of general comments about
                  Grand, but we need to communicate to the team about our thoughts
                  because it's the area with the highest lead time on planning and
                  traffic counts etc. Don, can you bring us up to date from where we
                  started?
 Overview of      Don, Framework Plan:
 framework ­      When we started off the plan itself or the framework plan the initial
 discussion of    concept "steeple to steeple" had been introduced much earlier. I said
 school parking   let's keep our area dealing with as small an area as possible to focus
                  efforts. I began to focus on the area from Olive to Delmar thinking
                  that if we really focus on this area we could make large impacts with
                  the symphony, the academy, Third Baptist, Grandel, Fox,
                  Kranzenberg and other areas being developed. We would touch lots
                  of entities and keep it tight. Things evolved and the VA complex
                  became more and more real and understood with what they are trying
                  to do. It is becoming a very large complex and they are acquiring
                  more property. That also came into play north of Powell Hall, with
                  the land owned by VA and there is a tower coming down this year,
                  the Churches Chicken and Check Cashing place near Clyde C. Miller
                  need to be addressed to understand how that may be developed and
                  influenced by Grand's redevelopment over time. So that's where we
                  ended up with the framework plan. The other piece we talked about
                  was Olive to Lindell but never took action on. The core area became
                  a series of civic/outdoors rooms ­ Strauss Park, the tilted plain, etc.
                  we wanted to think of the area.

                  Vince, GCI:
                  We talked about possibly closing off Grandel Square.

                  Don, Framework Plan:
                  We are trying to get a piece of roadway through Grandel Square for
                  drop off for the academy and relieves pressure in that area. The sun
                  theater provides additional services to the academy so the academy
                  campus becomes that space. We want to get more parking by the sun
                  for more facilities. This is the parking lot for the Urban League and
                  our last meeting we agreed to try to put together a land swap with the
                  Urban League to enable them to put staff parking behind their
                  building so they have more control and gives us a bigger pool of
                  parking that we can access. So our connection through here will
                  essentially align with the front door of the VA campus. What that
                  also means is that Grandel Square from Grand down to the parking
                  lot could have a different character ­ like drive through for pick up or
                  drop off or closed off and park of the opens space

                  Vince, GCI:
                  We also talked about the street Enright to Grandel right next to Sun



                                                                                             63
Theatre and possibly a round about at the east end of Grandel.

Don, Framework Plan:
So then the original thinking of the core area being a series of these
spaces with parks with a refocused area and function. For Spring
Ave, it becomes apparent that both of these large campuses are the
high school (Cardinal Ritter) and the VA have a front door akin to
Grand Center as a whole and Grandel Square and they start to work
together as a composite area.

Vince, GCI:
I had to leave that meeting early, one of the things we want to do is
create space for people to drop off at the two schools, Sun Theatre,
etc. and minimize traffic that goes onto Grandel Square.

Rich, Fox Associates:
The problem the drop off isn't as bad temporary we think we fixed it
to have the people cue on the Symphony lot.

Don, Framework Plan:
I don't know if that's a permanent issue especially with Circus Flora
stuff.

Vince, GCI:
Also issue with kids crossing Grand Ave.

Rich, Fox Associates:
Currently they drop off on Grandel.

Janice, Resident:
When they originally opened they had a long line down Grand so
now the school has instituted two pick up drop off stations and cones
around the block so parents go up Delmar east bound.

Vince, GCI:
That's why we want the street down Grandel to relieve traffic around
the block.

Janice, Resident:
GCAA is a half hour later than the other.

Dan R., GCAA:
We are working on varying times.

Vince, GCI:
Next year GCAA students will drive ­ how many students drive from



                                                                         64
                 Cardinal Ritter

                 Leon, Cardinal Ritter:
                 About 100, but we have plenty of additional parking for our students.

                 Vince, GCI:
                 We need to talk about parking for students

                 Rich, Fox Associates:
                 We have enough parking at Cardinal Ritter but none at GCAA

                 Vince, GCI:
                 Recap we wanted to join this committee today for the consultants to
                 consider all the tilted plain, schools, Sun Theatre etc. all together at
                 the first meeting. The concept in the framework is to close Grandel
                 and pave the plain for a multipurpose public space so it's a play space
                 for the school and something for the evening,

 Tilted          Don, Framework Plan:
 Plain/Grandel   There is a transit stop going south at tilted plain and north at Strauss
 Square and      Square ­ there is no Washington stop. Earlier in the day someone
 opening         brought up Grand Ave. buses run about 24 hours a day with 10 waits
 Theresa
                 it's the busiest line in the state and they are going to articulate buses
 Discussion
                 and they are about 60 feet long. When the bus pulls out of the traffic
                 it still takes up a big piece of the curb

                 Dan, Great Streets:
                 If we had to cut into the sidewalk we could reclaim

                 Vince, GCI:
                 From Lindell to the front door of Powell hall is 1580 ft. and there is
                 no cross line...do we want to design for a bus stop upward of that
                 when there is no cross bus traffic. It crosses at different points; if you
                 go to the fox from the Lindell bus you are 750 ft. from the front door.
                 There is active planning for a streetcar up Lindell from downtown at
                 least to Grand and the second phase could be up to Central West End
                 and down to Barnes Jewish Hospital (BJC) metro link ­ looking to
                 see if we have funding ­ to include in the Grand development as
                 well. We've got 8000 hotels downtown and to link this theatre
                 district with downtown is a high value investment. I started this talk a
                 while back.

                 Bev, KDHX:
                 Are we not putting the Washington metro stop back

                 Vince, GCI:



                                                                                              65
                   That stop came out before the service cuts because of a traffic issue
                   on the west side of Delmar.

                   Debbie, University Club:
                   When did they get started?

                   Vince, GCI:
                   They started before Patrice left and then it died down and us bank
                   provided first 300,000 to get plans started

                   Jerry, Third Baptist:
                   Is it contemplated to close any other streets or change turn
                   authorizations

                   Vince, GCI:
                   When we had talks about Washington change turns. We have really
                   talked about Theresa opening. When we closed that little strip it
                   forces the symphony goes to walk far from Compton. Compton is 6
                   lanes south of Olive and 4 east ­ it's a big difference in the
                   experience. After the TAG meeting heard ­ Vandeventer is on a
                   priority list to get pavedd, but they

                   Jerry, Third Baptist:
                   What if we are to be successful, we are talking about an enormous
                   increase in humans and cars in that district. It is kind of a problem.

                   Vince, GCI:
                   You gotta know your way around and you do

                   Dan, Great Streets:
                   We are trying to anticipate the development potential for traffic
                   counts and parking. Urban environments that are bridging public
                   transit and pedestrian's mode. Our intention is specifically to densify,
                   hopefully since we won't significantly increase patrons it will come
                   from residential and denser streets. I want the room to comment on
                   what they see and have heard in the framework plan. We've talked a
                   lot about how the framework is addressing issues and we want to pin
                   it down in the next 8 weeks so have we address the issues that the
                   symphony has from the original and current thinking
 Concerns from     Fred, St. Louis Symphony:
 Institutions ­    From our perspective, the two things that we are most concerned with
 traffic and bus   is traffic flow, parking, and pedestrian experience for people to be
 parking           able to walk from parking lot, street - what that experience is like
 discussion
                   and I thin a lot of people share that

                   Rich, Fox Associates: please talk about how you use buses and



                                                                                              66
school busses

Fred, St. Louis Symphony:
We do about 114 concerts a year and about 18 of those are in the day
and involve kids offloading from busses and the busses going to park
somewhere an that is a concern to us

David B., Rodemyer Christel Inc.:
We love having activity during the day but it inhibits our business
when all of Grand is covered in buses. When you have buses they can
be called instead of really close to the venue to inhibit
Fred, St. Louis Symphony: we also do a Friday morning series
during the day

Laurel, Great Streets:
What is the feedback from your patrons

Fred, St. Louis Symphony:
They are so used to it and they don't know anything else

Rich, Fox Associates: For a new patron it might be most frustrating

Fred, St. Louis Symphony:
The biggest hurdle for new audiences is overcoming the perception
of the area. You have to KNOW it and even then you have to work at
it

Boo, Craft Alliance:
Perceived safety many of our clients are afraid of parking at Scottish
Rite and Olive Street being dark with no pedestrians and a big issue
for craft alliance. There is perceived safety issues with walking along
Grand and people are nervous with the traffic

Debbie, University Club - Kohner Properties:
I own a building and yesterday they had a meeting and we are
concerned about our residents and for me it's about security when we
are inundated with more foot traffic, our residents always have to
wait to get in to their parking places. When we will have more people
and traffic, what is the plan for more security

Vince, GCI:
That is something that has to be built in

Debbie, University Club - Kohner Properties:
Especially when the metro comes in, like in the past there were more
vagrants



                                                                          67
Dan, Great Streets:
There have been discussions about lighting and overall urban
planning to address security.

Boo, Craft Alliance:
Also about school buses, we have about 50 during the day and I
believe they are on Olive, they drop students off and park on Olive
and I think they move around the area and pick kids up later, it
happens a lot in the Spring Ave mostly, there

Becky, Big Brothers, Big Sisters:
We never hear negative things about the buses at craft alliance so
that's not a problem for us

Boo, Craft Alliance:
Our grants dictate when the schools come

Rich, Fox Associates:
Unless you have a dedicated space to go for buses then they will go
wherever they want to go and disrupt traffic

Dan, Great Streets:
We've heard a lot about buses for

Janice, Resident:
Is there a possibility for a bus corral

Vince, GCI:
The AT&T lot on Olive west of Spring Ave is a possibility

Rich, Fox Associates:
Part of the problem is a good way in and out for them to drive on and
pull straight forward

Janice, Resident:
Coach lines line up in front of my house a lot especially when I am
sleeping and their motors are running. I'm near the burnt church it is
in my backyard.

Dan, Great Streets:
Does the Clyde C. Miller have a bus issue

Rich, Fox Associates:
I don't think I have seen buses there




                                                                         68
               Dan, Great Streets:
               Are there issues that haven't been address or unintended
               consequence's that concern you
 VA and Round- Janice, Resident:
 about         When I walk out of the front door the emergency room is about 2
 discussion    block and if they bring the line up closer to my house it will be a
               block closer and near where the school lets out at Grandel, it will
               dump you our into their Grand entrance which will be a new
               congestion issue.

                   Dan, Great Streets:
                   Is the emergency function going to Spring Ave

                   Vince, GCI:
                   To my knowledge we haven't seen the 6 complete options based on
                   how successful they are buying new ground. If they end up putting
                   their main entrance in front of our cut through at Grand it could be a
                   traffic issue. So we have to design Grandel to serve the two schools
                   and the people who live on Grandel and not

                   Rich, Fox Associates:
                   Will they have their plan in time where we could offset them

                   Dan, Great Streets:
                   Generally

                   Vince, GCI:
                   They got it extended to June 30 they asked for another 5 months to
                   get to their preferred program even thought they have the money to
                   move forward. I do share that concern about lining up and creating
                   another exit opportunity that doesn't serve the schools or residents.
                   We could consider something very narrow or one way but we have to
                   know from the school which way we want it to loop. We have
                   options to make it work without creating a street that goes all the way
                   through

                   Janice, Resident:
                   I like the green space coming to Grand, which would let GCAA have
                   a more campus like experience that could aid in their success

                   Vince, GCI:
                   If there were a drop off place for people with parking assets at
                   Grandel Square. Ultimately I think we would end up with a garage
                   over this area

                   Dan R., GCAA:



                                                                                             69
                  We will have more cars from kids in next two years

                  Dan, Great Streets:
                  How far down Grandel ­ in terms of parking for our building

                  Rich, Fox Associates:
                  He's asking about treatment of a potential round a bout

                  Don, Framework Plan:
                  The idea was that the street would be accessible by car but cut down
                  at particular times

                  Vince, GCI:
                  We could potentially put a roundabout next to the sun and GCAA
                  and still get that campus feel ­ we figured we need an extra 10 feet to
                  get a round a bout there, we would have to do it on the Earthways
                  side and would have to excavate but it's more accomplishable on that
                  side. If people want to drop off right in front of sun they can and it's
                  possible. These are all ideas and the design team will synthesis and
                  bring back best ideas. The GCAA campus is trickiest for now; once
                  we do more whey symphony it will be better. There are people that
                  cross Grand from Grandel to get to the symphony

 Retail and       Dan, Great Streets:
 parking          The development model from the framework allows a street level
 structure        retail with 5 ­ 6 levels of apartments and wrap around a parking
 discussion       structure. They wreck havoc on alleys but are good for revitalizing an
                  area like this

                  Vince, GCI:
                  A good example is the building on Lindell; there were 194
                  apartments in that tiny space. The problem is you don't get the foot
                  traffic on the street because the garage is right by the door. As we
                  think about this we thought of balcony on the street side to make
                  people presence know. We have a land use committee to address that.
                  This group is for public right of way. There is a private committee
                  and they have money separately to do their own private development.
 Public Transit   Dan, Great Streets:
 and Shuttle      Any other issues
 Discussion
                  Rich, Fox Associates:
                  One that's huge to me and wasn't address in framework, my patrons
                  wont ever take the bus but they may take the metro link, so I've
                  suggested everything from a monorail...Christine thought how about
                  a highline type development to get people from the metro link to the
                  area ­ a wonderful view and very interesting mix of people and cars.



                                                                                             70
We've got to figure out how to get people from the metro link and
walking the sidewalks is not the way. The trolley is good but it's a lot
already on Grand.

Vince, GCI:
Two issues are - you build something that white people will use or
convince people that it's safe enough to get on the bus and it's ok.
That's why we have these articulated buses that are more convenient
with seats for everyone...the other thing that came up in the tag
meeting are the street car rails, can they be reused ­ those are set
between one to three feet of concrete right under the asphalt ­ that's a
lot cheaper that the 25,000,000 a mile for a trolley. If we could
repurpose the line from metro link to page would be great ­ just a
loop system

Jon B., Great Streets:
It's overhead line?

Dan, Great Streets:
The symphony could give you great chocolate cake if flash a metro
pass

Bev, KDHX:
Does wrapping the buss properly change the perception

Vince, GCI:
The forest park bus does the trick by being wrapped

Peter, Great Streets::
If everything is successful we will lead to more perspectives

Bev, KDHX:
Is there an opportunity to have a theatre district specific bus for the
venues

Peter, Great Streets::
If we get people from metro link is key ­ if people are near it they
will take it

Vince, GCI:
The below grade Grand Ave., metro link we run a shuttle from Grand
Ave. to Scott to Compton past St. Louis University arena which
increases lots of people ­ as people get more comfortable with metro
link

Laurel, Great Streets:



                                                                           71
You get a great shuttle with captive audience and interactive driver it
could become a great moving visitors center

Rich, Fox Associates:
If there is traffic, those shuttle riders will be stuck in traffic as well
and then the shuttle isn't effective

Vince, GCI:
What if instead of an on demand shuttle it's a reservation that you get
at one of the restaurants

Laurel, Great Streets:
We need the Disney people to help us

Peter, Great Streets::
People don't linger now but we need more opportunities with more
diversions

Dan, Great Streets:
Toronto example ­ they may get stuck occasionally but if we can
make it fun and incentivize the patrons with bon bons if they flash
their pass

Rich, Fox Associates:
My great concern is what happens at the transit stop

Dan, Great Streets:
But they are going to the ball game on metro and that's 40,000

Rich, Fox Associates:
But they get let out right there

Janice, Resident:
Metro link has been around long enough that people are learning

Rich, Fox Associates:
If metro link runs through Grand center there would be no issue, but
we have to address the transfer points

Dan, Great Streets:
Maybe it's a Teresa Delmar loop and avoid Grand all together

Rich, Fox Associates:
If we stagger 4,000 people it's really just 30 mins

Fred, St. Louis Symphony:



                                                                             72
What are your expectations for a reduction to cars

Dan, Great Streets:
How do people get to times square

Fred, St. Louis Symphony:
This isn't NY

Bev, KDHX:
If the shuttle system takes people all around they may end up walking

Dan, Great Streets: let's talk about the Grand corridor about what
works and doesn't work on Grand corridor go around the room

Dan R, GCAA:
I don't have much to say other than I'd like to have an idea of the big
piece ­ what is the big plan and mission of the piece for Grand

Janice, Resident:
Another thing to not forget with Grandel Square ­ it used to be a lot
narrower there is a pavement change from asphalt to gravel ­ the
packed gravel used to be sidewalk. There is still an option of bringing
that in to be pedestrian space. When they did that change they didn't
lower the water meter stacks, so there are all these trippers where the
street used to cover...it used to be medical centers and they needed
more parking space

Rich, Fox Associates:
Grand is a fantastic street especially if we get the sidewalks wider.
We've got to address the traffic by adding parking on the street ­
don't know if that's the best solution ­ sometimes parking is allowed
and sometimes not and it get's confusing. It's also the main
ambulance route so it gets loud

Dan, Great Streets:
There are two medical centers on Grand

Vince, GCI:
The VA emergency entrances are thinking of using Spring Ave
instead

Fred, St. Louis Symphony:
Part of solving Grand traffic problem is solving everything around it.
Part of it is training people how they come and go, its making it
possible for the other streets for how it works cause it doesn't right
now



                                                                          73
                     Rich, Fox Associates:
                     There isn't even enough signage at Vandeventer that says you can get
                     to Grand from there

                     Jerry, Third Baptist:
                     Public transportation then built environment ­pub transportation
                     there is a big difference between clear destinations like at the stadium
                     you have high percentage taking metro ­ but the box seats are less
                     likely to ride metro and symphony are more like the box seat people
                     who are accustomed to a certain type of driving and style. The
                     clothing and heels of the women and I know an example of a couple
                     who hates riding the public transit. I love the idea of doing more with
                     public transit. Caution to it's not going to be easy increasing public
                     transit use. Built environment ­ are we talking about putting
                     buildings around the outside with parking in the middle. Under what
                     conditions do you build over or close a street? One street that comes
                     to mind ­ on Samuel Shepard would there ever be a reason to close
                     that street and build a garage there ­ is it economically environment.
                     I just don't want to get trapped into our 30,000 view of our footprint
                     and say we can't violate that.
 Retail and          Vince, GCI:
 kiosk/retail cart   One thing about third Baptist ­ we closed on sun today and will close
 discussion          on 634 building in a month, we've got your entrance on Washington
                     and Grand Ave. façade is more show than go ­ id like you to talk to
                     pastor Hoffman about possibly some type of pop up retail ­ kiosk
                     that may open for lunch or newsstand 2 -3 of them so that we begin
                     to give reasons for people to walk up and down that street. Walking
                     along long blank walls at that area deaden the spot ­ like parking lots.
                     We probably aren't going to jump from our little to 250,000 sqft of
                     retail over night but can we use kiosk retail for when there are events
                     going on

                     Fred, St. Louis Symphony:
                     It's the concept of the food truck like idea

                     Vince, GCI:
                     It doesn't have to be food based ­ as the whole thing does better, the
                     restaurants will do better. We've discussed and put money up for
                     marketing programs ­ not well thought through. We won't be 1.5
                     million to 3 million in 6 years without some small mid steps

                     Jerry, Third Baptist:
                     Visually I can sit at Strauss park I think Strauss park should be full
                     everyday at lunch




                                                                                                74
                  David, Rodemyer Christel Inc.:
                  Nighttime activities has been night time activities ­ but we also have
                  to think about normal market rate people and tax credit people to
                  move here ­ then you will see people who want to come down here
                  for lunch so we need to make it a community where people live work
                  and play and hangout. I've been here for 7 years and there has been a
                  tremendous amount of work done.
 Parking          Fred, St. Louis Symphony:
 discussion cont. Parking ­ I would say in our case we have various different
                  audiences. The Broadway audience like ­ our audience is changing
                  like live at Powell hall.

                    Laurel, Great Streets:
                    If we are planning for the future we have to plan for a change.

                    Rich, Fox Associates:
                    Our non transit riders are a small subset

                    Peter, Great Streets::
                    We have to think generationally for the younger people to be
                    incentivized as they are coming up

                    Dan, Great Streets:
                    At locust down there we've got all this diversity and up on Grand is
                    all those old people and we said we thought locust is all those young
                    people and up here we've got lots of buses of kids and young
                    people...Thank you for being here.




                                                                                            75
Olive Street Corridor Sub-Committee                                          Grand Center
January 10, 2013 Discussion Summary                                    Great Streets Project

Overview
The Olive Street Corridor Sub-Committee met with members of the Great Streets (GS)
team on Thursday, January 10, 2013. Seven committee members and Grand Center Inc.
(GCI) representatives participated in the meeting, which was held to accomplish the
following objectives:
    Acquaint committee members with the Great Streets team;
    Provide the team with information on the committee's work to date; and
    Identify critical corridor issues that the team needs to consider during the planning
    process.
A list of meeting attendees is presented below.

Attendance

Committee Members & GCI Representatives:
Matthew Foggy                  Property Owner / Resident
Paul DeMerath                  Scottish Rite Cathedral Preservation Association
Steve Smith                    The Lawrence Group
Tim Eby                        St. Louis Public Radio, 90.7 KWMU
Jack Galmiche                  Nine Network of Public Media
Vince Schoemehl                Grand Center Inc.
Don Stastny                    Stastny Architect

Project Team Members:
Dan Jay                        Christner
Laurel Harrington              Christner
Peter Schaudt                  Hoerr Schaudt Landscape Architects
Jon Brooke                     Hoerr Schaudt Landscape Architects
Rebeccah Bennett               Vector Communications

Discussion Summary

 Discussion Topic    Comments
  Treatment of       Don, Framework Plan:
  Olive Street In    Olive is not a street that we spent a whole lot of time on in the Framework
  The Framework      Plan. For the most part, it's fairly well set in terms of what development is
  Plan               there and can take place. However, as we move forward we've got things
                     on both ends and in the middle that need our attention. With these things,
                     we're probably back to the framework level. KWMU and the Metropolitan
                     building were under construction at the time of the Framework Plan and not
                     much could be done.
                     Laurel, Great Streets: Olive is our gateway street, particularly at the




                                                                                                     76
                   intersection of Grand and Olive. A lot has been done here from the
                   relocation of major institutions to the pathway for the Art Walk to GRG's
                   possible future plans.
 Treatment of      Don, Framework Plan: The triangle between Olive and Lindell east and
 Olive Street In   west of Grand creates an opportunity for greater connection to SLU and is
 The Framework     very important.
 Plan Continued
                   Vince, GCI: The corner of Spring and Olive is Mr. Foggy's property
                   (about 2 acres). Across the street is Jim Day's property, the gas station.
                   How to acquire it and what to do with it are critical questions. Matthew
                   Foggy has talked about turning it into a park or some other passive use.
                   KETC is considering doing something on the west side of its building,
                   across from the Day property. Across the street from Matthew's property is
                   the Scottish Rite parking lot. There's a parcel there that can be developed
                   and the Art Walk will move by it. We would like to examine if there is an
                   opportunity to put first floor retail in the Continental's garage as well as in
                   Big Brothers Big Sisters' building.
                   One of the most valuable pieces of land in this district is the lot on the
                   southwest corner of Grand and Olive. It has about 54 parking spaces and is
                   roughly 18,000 square feet. This property is owned by the Jesuits. We
                   don't know the plans for the parcel west of the state building. Olive near
                   Theresa may be the most developable property in the district since it isn't
                   anchored by major uses.
                   Spring and Olive has land use issues. The sidewalks on Olive are pretty
                   narrow, but can be widened. Steps on the sidewalk really narrow it at the
                   Teachers Pension building. SLU owns the whole triangle between north
                   Grand and the intersection of Olive and Lindell. We didn't do the same
                   sort of comprehensive treatment on this in the framework plan.
                   Paul, Scottish Rite: During the day, we're at near capacity for parking.
                   Don, Framework Plan: When the garage was built, was there any
                   consideration for expansion upward?
                   Vince, GCI: No, but I think there's enough ceiling height to put in retail.
                   Paul, Scottish Rite: I think it is really critical that Olive be the portal into
                   the district at Theresa, Grand and Spring.
                   Matthew, Property Owner: Are the portals just to Lindell or also to
                   connect with SLU?
                   Don, Framework Plan: Within the Framework Plan, there are portals at
                   Olive and Grand, Spring and Washington, Washington and Theresa, and
                   Delmar and Grand. We did not go further south towards SLU because we
                   never really had a full commitment from Father Biondi to do something.
                   These portals are potential gateways.
 Art Walk (AW)     Tim, St. Louis Public Radio: With the AW at the Scottish Rite, has there
                   been any talk about elevating it into some sort of a bridge to cross Olive?
                   Paul, Scottish Rite: The RFQ is considering elevating it above ground
                   level. Perhaps you'd elevate it, but swing it immediately east and tie it into
                   the garage to address security issues.




                                                                                                      77
Discussion Topic   Comments
 Art Walk (AW)     Vince, GCI: The other problem here is that there is an alley that has to
 Continued         clear 14-foot trucks and that has a 7-foot grade differential. This means that
                   you'd have to take the walk up, which would block the view of the back of
                   the Sheldon. We have to elevate the AW or go to grade on the St. Louis
                   University Museum of Art's property. SLU's okay with this and knows it
                   would be their expense. We've got a canvas here and it doesn't have to be
                   just a pathway up against the garage.
                   Rich, Fox: This is the toughest transition.
                   Paul, Scottish Rite: We've got the AW going straight through, but what
                   about the grassy knoll area? ADA issues are something to be mindful of as
                   well. It should be noted that when the framework plan was taking place,
                   the masons weren't at the table. The view corridor is for the museum and is
                   an easement that SLU owns.
 Olive, East of    Paul, Scottish Rite: Steve, you have an interest on the east side of spring,
 Spring            any anomalies?
                   Steve, Lawrence Group: The main thing I'd like to see is the
                   enhancement of the triangular park so that it connects for vehicles and
                   pedestrians. I'd like to retain the ability to have cars there.
                   Tim, St. Louis Public Radio: How much is the SLU lot on Olive used?
                   Steve, Lawrence Group: SLU staff park there and the Motorcycle
                   Museum leases it occasionally. This morning we talked about Locust to
                   Washington and Grand and now we're talking about Locust to Olive.
                   In front of the Motorcycle Museum the sidewalk is treeless. The sidewalks
                   are clear, though the private property may have trees. It's oppressively hot
                   in the summertime with the sun because there are no buildings or trees.
                   There needs to be a canopy of vegetation somehow.
                   Laurel, Great Streets: We just talked about how Theresa almost becomes
                   a barrier to weaving the Locust district into grand center. Is there a
                   complete new alignment that happens at the intersection of the three streets
                   that makes something really special possible (Theresa, Olive, Locust)?
                   Peter, Great Streets: You could put a piazza at the intersection.
                   Steve, Lawrence Group: As a notion, this is very intriguing.
 Needs That        Tim, St. Louis Public Radio: The stoplight at Grand and Olive is horrible.
 Have Not Been     I've waited four minutes to cross.
 Addressed ­
                   Vince, GCI: Making Grand more convenient through the traffic timing
 Stoplight At
                   structure defeats our efforts to get people to use Vandeventer and Compton.
 Grand & Olive
                   Lights along Grand have all been fiberoptic linked for a while.
                   Jon, Great Streets: Slow lights are good for businesses.
                   Tim, St. Louis Public Radio: On the corner where the hotel is, that is such
                   a dangerous corner / intersection.




                                                                                                    78
Discussion Topic   Comments
 Needs That        Peter, Great Streets: How far can you widen the sidewalks?
 Have Not Been
                   Vince, GCI: They can be widened about 6 to 8 feet.
 Addressed ­
 Sidewalks         Peter, Great Streets: Olive would be a better street if you could add trees
                   to it.
 Character of      Laurel, Great Streets: Does Olive have a different character, east and
 Olive, East &     west of Grand?
 West of Grand
                   Peter, Great Streets: The section of Olive on the west side of Grand is the
                   most urban or dense. What do you think the character is that we're striving
                   for on both sides of the corridor?
                   Paul, Scottish Rite: Right now the character of the corridor is business,
                   but the advent of the big screens at the public media commons will change
                   the character and feel of the space.
                   Don, Framework Plan: Could there be two distinct characters of Olive?
                   If you get a cut through at Olive and Theresa, the two sides won't feel as
                   distinct.
                   Dan, Great Streets: There's really nothing for pedestrians along the Olive
                   corridor.
                   Vince, GCI: I'd like to see a real examination of first floor retail at the
                   Scottish right and in the Continental's garage.
 Olive Near        Jack, Nine Network: On the east side of the Nine Network building will
 Spring            be the media commons and on the west side we wanted to put in a public
                   café.
                   Vince, GCI: The plan for the ATT parking lot leased to Grand Center is to
                   put a one deck parking structure there. GCI has leased the lot from ATT for
                   3 years. ATT has a vision that someday the lot with the adjoining building
                   may become a major call center. The lot is at Spring and Olive.
                   Jack, Nine Network: Might some sort of public garden for the café be
                   available here at this lot? [NO RESPONSE].
                   Don, Framework Plan: What do know about the alleys on Olive between
                   Spring and Grand?
                   Vince, GCI: The alley is gated.
                   Paul, Scottish Rite: Trash trucks have a key and can use it. It's an
                   easement for the utilities.
 Triangular        Peter, Great Streets: What about the triangular space at Spring and Olive?
 Space At          In the framework plan it's called a development opportunity. Talk a little
 Spring & Olive    about this.
                   Don, Framework Plan: A number of ideas have been floated regarding
                   this site. One idea by Matthew is that it might be used as an open space
                   combined with Emily Pulitzer's orchard (space). Taken together, it could
                   have a park like feel.




                                                                                                 79
Discussion Topic    Comments
 Triangular         Don, Framework Plan: Another option could include cultural uses for the
 Space At           building in the triangle, possibly clustering the arts institutions' arts-in-
 Spring & Olive     residence programs. There were some designs done for a building that
 Continued          could accommodate this. The designs included a two to three story
                    building with retail and media on the first floor, a second floor for studios
                    and residential uses on the top floors. The basic footprint of building was
                    15,000 square feet. A number of alternatives were discussed, but we never
                    came to anything that really worked. What gets done depends in large part
                    on the character of the road, the streetscape here. The other thing that
                    impacts this is the whole idea of what the Art Walk (AW) has evolved into.
                    The AW should define and influence what the other spaces in this area are
                    designed and activated for. There's probably some value in the two
                    triangles north of Olive and Spring.
                    Jack, Nine Network: As we've developed the concept for the west side of
                    our building, it's a very prominent sign board and we always planned for it
                    to be very green with some type of live planting on it. We're looking to
                    expand our space with a clear glass enclosure.
                    Matthew, Property Owner: Some consideration should be given to
                    having green space with art.
                    Jon, Great Streets: This is a great spot for motorists passing through and
                    can peak their interest.
                    Peter, Great Streets: The corner site would be ideal for a figural piece of
                    art that would be a period point to the district.
 Last Thoughts      Don, Framework Plan: The Framework Plan didn't focus on this area.
 ­ General          There's a lot of opportunity here in terms of what you can do with the street
 Character of       wall, especially in places where there are missing teeth.
 Corridor
                    Paul, Scottish Rite: Don't overdue it. Allow for future ideas. Its' good to
                    sit here today and discuss some of the possibilities. I'm anxious to see what
                    will be done at Grand and Olive. What statement are we making there on
                    both sides of the street?
 Last Thoughts      Matthew, Property Owner: How the triangular pieces at the intersection
 ­ Triangular       of Spring and Olive are handled is extremely important as an entryway to
 Space At           the Grand Center area. This has been a beneficial meeting for me.
 Spring & Olive
                    I believe retail is important, we might not be able to get it done on Olive,
                    but it would certainly enhance the area. I look forward to hearing more,
                    especially regarding the development of the Theresa end of the corridor.
 Last Thoughts      Rich, Fox: To me the place that needs the most work is the east side of the
 ­ Olive, East of   corridor. There's nothing compelling at all until you get down to Theresa.
 Grand              We have energy on Grand and on Locust, but then there's a big gap.
 Last Thoughts,     Jack, Nine Network: This is a very interesting area. Historically, Grand
 Olive, West of     and Olive has always been a heavy traffic area. But, I find that the area
 Grand              along the public media commons is a bit sterile and we're doing some work
                    on our lobby design to liven things up. We're interested in the design and
                    programming for the west side of our building.




                                                                                                    80
Discussion Topic    Comments
 Last Thoughts      Tim, St. Louis Public Radio: There's so much in the Centene Center for
 ­ Olive, East of   the Arts building, but nothing that tells this story at all. It's basically an
 Grand              incubator for arts organizations. The walk on Olive on the eastside of
                    Grand is just not a good experience. I'd like to see something interesting
                    created here.
 Last Thoughts      Vince, GCI: The sterility of the street is an important problem from end to
 ­ Sterility of     end. The second thing is that we have a lot of landscape designers working
 Olive              on this stuff and we have a lot of empty green spaces in this neighborhood.
                    We need people here. We need density over green space. The last thing we
                    need is more empty space whether it has trees or not.
                    Peter, Great Streets: Where greening needs to happen is in the right of
                    way.
                    Dan, Great Streets: We need to crack the sterility problem.
                    Don, Framework Plan: We thought a lot about the open space issue. You
                    do have Forest Park not that far away and a campus nearby. Trying to
                    replicate the campus atmosphere is not that important. We need fewer open
                    spaces that work better.




                                                                                                     81
Spring Corridor Sub-Committee                                                 Grand Center
January 11, 2013 Discussion Summary                                     Great Streets Project

Overview
The Spring Corridor Sub-Committee met with members of the Great Streets (GS) team
on Thursday, January 10, 2013. Eleven committee members and Grand Center Inc.
(GCI) representatives participated in the meeting, which was held to accomplish the
following objectives:
    Acquaint committee members with the Great Streets team;
    Provide the team with information on the committee's work to date; and
    Identify critical corridor issues that the team needs to consider during the planning
    process.
A list of meeting attendees is presented below.

Attendance
Committee Members & GCI Representatives:
David Gifford                   The Sheldon
Lisa Melandri                   Contemporary Art Museum St. Louis
Rich Baker                      Fox Associates, LLC
Peter Pierotti                  St. Louis University
Matthew Foggy                   Property Owner / Resident
Paul DeMerath                   Scottish Rite Cathedral Preservation Association
Leon Henderson                  Cardinal Ritter College Prep High School
Jack Galmiche                   Nine Network of Public Media
Ken Christian                   Stellar Management
Vince Schoemehl                 Grand Center Inc.
Don Stastny                     Stastny Architect

Project Team Members:
Dan Jay                        Christner
Laurel Harrington              Christner
Peter Schaudt                  Hoerr Schaudt Landscape Architects
Jon Brooke                     Hoerr Schaudt Landscape Architects
Rebeccah Bennett               Vector Communications
Discussion Summary

 Discussion Topic    Comments
  Institutional      Lisa, CAM: Stormwater is an issue. Parking on the Lindell side of Spring
  Needs Along        is also a concern given the difference in nighttime and day time uses (i.e.
  The Corridor       Nadoz and museums). At Spring and Washington, lighting needs
                     significant focus. This is based on customer review ­ art institutions'
                     constituents identified this as an issue. Lastly, because of the nature of the
                     architecture of the CAM and Pulitzer, you want greening and sustainability,
                     but you don't want to cover up the visual understanding of the buildings in
                     their entirety.



                                                                                                      82
Discussion Topic   Comments
 Institutional     Lisa, CAM: With regard to the Art Walk (AW) and the Pixel project, these
 Needs Along       things serve as a footprint that can be interrupted and updated with
 The Corridor      programmatic projects that come out of the museums themselves. Think
 Continued         about what it looks like when nothing's happening and when something's
                   happening.
                   Vince, GCI: Specifically, Lisa's referring to street lighting. If we do
                   enhanced street lighting and then have projection projects, we'll want to
                   turn the lights off on the street so that the art installation light exhibits are
                   not washed out.
 Ideas From The    Emily, Pulitzer: What did the Washington and Olive groups propose?
 Washington &
                   Laurel & Dan, Great Streets: The groups proposed changes in the
 Olive Sub-
                   direction of the AW.
 Committees
                   Don, Framework Plan: The AW, while it is an element and an attractor,
                   now becomes a linkage between the various institutions in the area. It's the
                   front porch of the visual arts institutions.
                   Dan, Great Streets: Also discussed was the old service station at Olive.
                   The group considered the highest and best use of this and how it could be
                   turned into a potential development that responds to the Bosc???
                   Vince, GCI: On the gas station site we talked about open space and
                   development? It's across the street from Matthew's property. We have no
                   conclusions yet about what to do. The team will present a number of
                   alternatives for people to look at, evaluate and consider.
                   Paul, Scottish Rite: All the discussion revolved around it being more
                   complementary than a signature piece.
                   Laurel, Great Streets: On Olive near Spring, this section of the street has
                   institutions and doesn't have any "missing teeth," but it's kind of sterile.
                   The question is what is the identity of Olive? This will change a lot as the
                   media commons comes on line. Near Spring, there's the notion of an
                   invisible barrier that makes it difficult to get up to Grand. We talked about
                   the AW and what it all means.
                   Don, Framework Plan: Washington and Spring is a gateway to the
                   district in the Framework Plan. So we'll be putting a lot of branding burden
                   on it.
                   Emily, Pulitzer: Given the institutional quality of Olive between Grand
                   and Spring, there's also the alley behind which the AW will cross and
                   which could be a much more interesting pedestrian passageway than Olive
                   itself.
                   Laurel, Great Streets: The Framework Plan considers connectivity and
                   dual use of the alleys.
                   Emily, Pulitzer: Historically, we've had conversations about using the
                   alley behind the Fox.




                                                                                                       83
Discussion Topic   Comments
 Ideas From The    Rich, Fox: If we can make alleys pedestrian friendly, then this is worth
 Washington &      considering. They're still scary, however, because of truck traffic,
 Olive Sub-        dumpsters and the perceptions of a lack of safety.
 Committees
                   Emily, Pulitzer: St. Louis' traditional surface for alleys is brick, which is
 Continued
                   great for trucks and it says to people that its not just a street.
                   Matthew, Property Owner: In terms of the gas station and the triangle at
                   Olive and Spring, there was some discussion about keeping it a green space
                   or erecting a pavilion for use by artists in residence.
                   Emily, Pulitzer: It could be both and it could be phased.
                   Lisa, CAM: Anecdotally, one of the issues with Spring along the curve is
                   that if it is green and asks you to stop and maybe have your lunch there, it
                   could go a long way to change that sense of desolation.
                   Dave, The Sheldon: We lack places to stop and rest. Any walking spaces
                   generally have such amenities and we need to take this into account.
                   Rich, Fox: We have a dearth of places to sit in the whole district.
                   Laurel, Great Streets: Are there particular routes people enjoy walking?
                   Lisa, CAM: The majority of foot traffic along Spring is students walking
                   and going back towards Lindell. They have a destination in mind; they
                   aren't out for a constitutional stroll. They park close to CAM and down
                   Washington and near Cardinal Ritter.
 Diverting         Dan, Great Streets: One of the recommendations of the Framework Plan
 Traffic           is to divert traffic to Vandeventer and Compton for entering and exiting the
                   district. The Sheldon reported that they were already having success with
                   this. Any thoughts or recommendations on this?
                   Rich, Fox: You can educate visitors as much as you want, but at the end of
                   the day they'll do whatever they want. We have a lot better luck with
                   subscribers, but the single ticket buyer will come down Grand.
                   Dan, Great Streets: Vandeventer works, but Compton doesn't.
                   Dave, The Sheldon: There's no signage at these alternative routes and this
                   needs to be addressed.
                   Paul, Scottish Rite: Its bad arriving in the District, but it's worse leaving.
                   We can do things to hold our patrons. We could try a lot of ideas, including
                   incentivize phased leaving (buy one get one drink specials etc.). This along
                   with education could work.
 Education         Dan, Great Streets: Grand Center Academy will grow from 350 to 800
 Institutions      students. Cardinal Ritter will remain between 250 and 400 max.
 The VA            Dan, Great Streets: The VA is diverting emergency traffic to the west
                   side of its campus and is becoming more and more focused on Spring. A
                   parking garage is anticipated on the east and west side.
                   Vince, GCI: They have six options but it all depends on what land they
                   can acquire




                                                                                                    84
Discussion Topic   Comments
 The VA            Jon, Great Streets: Does this change the alignment over on Delmar?
 continued
                   Vince, GCI: Yes, that configuration was done with the VA in mind.
                   Dan, Great Streets: There's a potential development sight at Grandel and
                   Delmar and Spring.
                   Vince, GCI: The land is owned by the VA, but they gave Grand Center a
                   perpetual easement so that we could develop it.
 Access &          Dave, Sheldon: The access points from Vandeventer onto Washington and
 Traffic           Olive are problematic. They have lights at these locations, but they are very
                   poorly set for people to exit the district.
                   Emily, Pulitzer: The wait at the lights used to be 5 minutes and now it
                   takes 3.
                   Don, Framework Plan: Signalization all over the district is ridiculous.
                   Dan, Great Streets: We just met the director of streets and will have a
                   component to address these issues in our plan. We'll be highlighting
                   needed changes on Vandeventer and Compton.
                   Dave, Sheldon: If you want to divert traffic on these corridors, you have to
                   address signalization.
                   Emily, Pulitzer: There's one block of Olive that is one way. We need to
                   change this.
                   Vince, GCI: This is Terry Kennedy's ward. We won't get the street
                   changed.
 Street            Don, Framework Plan: Let's talk about the relationship of the institutions
 Treatment &       to the street. The street treatment around the Pulitzer and CAM is a
 Landscaping       different kind of animal than in other areas of the district. It will have and
                   needs to have a different kind of feel. Lisa and Emmy, talk about this.
                   Emily, Pulitzer: This is really true throughout this area. You can't do a
                   one street tree plan fits all. Because the buildings have evolved over a long
                   period for different purposes, they meet the street in different ways and the
                   landscaping has to be sensitive to this.
                   Lisa, CAM: One of the treasures of Spring specifically is that anytime
                   you're not dealing with the grid you feel like there's a distinction. Spring's
                   curve gives the feeling of a meander. You want people to feel comfortable
                   coming around the corner, but you don't want to interrupt the character and
                   feel of the buildings.
                   Dave, Sheldon: We've been looking at the Sheldon, particularly along the
                   west wall and what we figured out is that you can't tell the Sheldon is there
                   because the trees block the venue. You can easily drive by it. Fox parking
                   attendants say that people miss the Sheldon all the time. My point is that
                   we haven't paid a lot of attention to how greenery complements or harms
                   the architectural places we have in the district. We also need to think about
                   how we better present what we have?




                                                                                                    85
Discussion Topic   Comments
 Street            Vince, GCI: Signage helps.
 Treatment &
                   Dave, Sheldon: Yes, but the trees block the signage.
 Landscaping
                   Don, Framework Plan: We need to remember that it isn't just one size
                   fits all. The architecture plays a role as an outdoor wall and doesn't have to
                   be thought of as a barrier. The architecture can respond to a street scene;
                   it's not just the other way around.
                   Rich, Fox: Keep in mind that landscaping doesn't have to be bushes and
                   trees. These can sometimes be barriers. Don't create barriers with
                   landscaping.
 Hardscapes        Dan, Great Streets: We've been considering hardscapes
                   Emily, Pulitzer: Something to consider is the tilted plane. If the diagonal
                   fence were to become an open gate, it would be better for pedestrian traffic.
                   Lisa, CAM: I tried six different shortcuts through alleys etc. and I was
                   stopped each time by fences and blockages.
                   Rich, Fox: It's always a struggle because you want to provide secure
                   parking spaces as well as facilitate easy pedestrian movement.
 Cardinal Ritter   Dan, Great Streets: I want to hear from Cardinal Ritter.
                   Leon, Cardinal Ritter: The biggest challenge is parking in front of our
                   building. We want parents to be able to easily drop off their children. We
                   have plenty of space in the parking lot, but we're talking about quick, easy
                   access during the day. The parking spaces in front of the building are taken
                   up largely by VA employees. SLU students tend to be further south on
                   Spring.
                   We're glad to be a part of all this. We see ourselves as an anchor in Grand
                   Center and want to add to the appeal of the community. I'd like to see our
                   parents get more involved in the life of the district. Our drop offs are right
                   on Spring and there's lots of u-turning. This isn't really safe. Kids don't
                   come by school bus but by Metro and their parents.
                   Don, Framework Plan: Any thoughts about landscaping here?
                   Leon, Cardinal Ritter: There are not a lot of attempts to cross our grass,
                   people respect the landscape, with the exception sometimes of our students.
                   Peter, Great Streets: Would it be desirable to have trees shading the cars?
                   Matthew, Property Owner: You could have some kind of way to have an
                   indentation or offset that communicates that parking is for the school.
                   Peter, Great Streets: The problem is that if you introduce an entry for
                   drop off, it will never be big enough. It works better to use the city street.
                   In this case, trees might be something interesting to consider. Waiting and
                   cuing in the car in warmer months, it might be good to have shade.




                                                                                                    86
Discussion Topic   Comments
 The East Side     Emily, Pulitzer: When you think about trees, consider what's on the other
 Of Spring         side of the street. The plan is to enter the burnt church on the north side,
                   which would be a grove of trees. The Pulitzer owns an adjacent building
                   and I have always felt that it is too low. It doesn't have the mass it needs to
                   hold the street there. I'm not sure what will happen with that building, but
                   a false higher wall that is planted or is a screen may be a possibility.
                   Dan, Great Streets: Spring has never been a passive pedestrian
                   environment. It's always been about people parking and leaving there. As
                   we bring the AW there, it represents a significant change from what's been
                   occurring. Between Grandel and Delmar on Spring is a potential
                   development site.
                   Peter, Great Streets: What gives the city its richness is asymmetry. Both
                   sides of the street do not have to be the same.
                   Laurel, Great Streets: GRG likes to have its bike paths off the street. Is
                   there a thought of actually shifting most of that emphasis to the burnt
                   church and CAM Art Walk side so that we have a bike, pedestrian walkway
                   combination and not so much parking? Can we lose some parking here?
                   Dave, Sheldon: There is a narrow sidewalk down by the burnt church.
                   There's also no space to change anything either since the street or some
                   portion of the building would have to go away.
                   Lisa, CAM: This is the case on the Lindell side as well.
                   Emily, Pulitzer: When we tear up streets, sidewalks whatever, we need to
                   bury the telephone and utility lines.
                   Great Streets Team: This is very expensive and most of the utilities are in
                   the alleys, so they'd be even less inclined to bury them.
 Positive &        Dan, Great Streets: We've identified Spring's curve as being nice and
 Negative          have talked about the quality of the architecture. Are there other positives
 Attributes Of     and negatives along the Spring corridor?
 The Spring
                   Emmy, Pulitzer: There are pockets of green and trees. The park behind
 Corridor
                   Olive gives an opportunity to cut diagonally.
                   Jack, Nine Network: We intend to have a presentation of green at the area
                   on the west side of the Nine Network. This whole area is a special place in
                   Grand Center. There's the intersection of two streets and an alley. The
                   alley here is very utilitarian. People use it to exit and for urban functions.
                   Nine Network is making improvements to the alley further east for the AW,
                   but could do more going west. Also, the relationship to CAM and the
                   Pultizer and Nine Network pulls all of it together.
                   Leon, Cardinal Ritter: The burnt church is captivating and lots of people
                   slow down to see it.
                   Emily, Pulitzer: It could be a kind of bookend to the media commons,
                   which is active and lively. The church could be more tranquil and
                   reflective space.




                                                                                                     87
Discussion Topic   Comments
 Positive &        Jack, Nine Network: One of the considerations early on was about the
 Negative          different kinds of experiences along the AW. Whatever they are they need
 Attributes Of     to be complementary, though distinct.
 The Spring
                   Laurel, Great Streets: Jack, do you see a connection between students and
 Corridor
                   the café you're proposing?
                   Jack, Nine Network: Yes, we'll be attracting students through the public
                   media commons and see this as an opportunity to further engage them
                   around interactivity, food and beverages.
                   Lisa, CAM: This is great for the people who work in the district as well.
                   Rich, Fox: Good ­ the sensuous curve. Bad ­ the AT&T building. It has
                   dated architecture. We need to put something in front of it. Knock it down.
                   Lisa, CAM: If the rest of the corners are treated well, then maybe it kind
                   of goes away.
                   Peter, Great Streets: When you have more development, this building
                   mass won't be a problem. It'll go away.
                   Emily, Pulitzer: It's interesting that no one from AT&T is here.
                   Lisa, CAM: Debra Hollingsworth from ATT said she doesn't have the
                   time to participate. The building for them is mainly storage and equipment
                   so they don't feel attached to its façade.
                   Peter, Great Streets: Maybe the facade can be softened up by trees.
                   Ken, Stellar Management: Don't discount that if you have an idea for
                   treating the building, AT&T may be willing to implement it. Treat the wall
                   as a canvas.
                   Lisa, CAM: One positive attribute is that Spring functions as three little
                   sections and there's the opportunity to retain distinctions while allowing for
                   people to use the whole of it. The sections are from Lindell to Olive, the
                   curve itself, and then from Cardinal Ritter to Delmar. These 3 distinct
                   segments that can be tied together.
                   Dave, Sheldon: If you're thinking about walking access to the district,
                   walk the streets you're talking about and see what they feel like. We
                   haven't really thought through the pedestrian experience. Also, the streets
                   are long and you need more attractions for the pedestrian.
                   Dan, Great Streets: We need to populate, infill etc. between Grand and
                   Spring.
 Other Corridor    Don, Framework Plan: There are tremendous opportunities all over the
 Opportunities     district to do many things. We're thinking of using the grassy plot behind
                   the Urban League or perhaps the parking lot in front of the Urban League.
                   This aligns better with where the front door of the VA will be. I think the
                   entry to Cardinal Ritter and the VA really needs to be celebrated. They are
                   doorways to the communities adjacent to them.




                                                                                                    88
Discussion Topic   Comments
 Other Corridor    Don, Framework Plan: The other thing I heard is that with the potential
 Opportunities     new development along Spring, there's an opportunity to do things in these
 Continued         "urban rooms". Civic and urban spaces could go here. On Spring, past
                   Washington, couldn't the AW continue past Cardinal Ritter?
                   Dan, Great Streets: The GRG path might also be a part of this. We
                   haven't talked about the significance of the crossing at spring and Lindell,
                   but this is pretty significant as well.
                   Emmy, Pulitzer: What about the law clinic on Spring?
                   Peter, St. Louis University: It may stay temporarily. I'm not sure. The
                   space also has the Catholic Clinic there so it may remain in the building
                   with other activities.
 Next Steps In     Dave, Sheldon: What happens next with the planning process?
 The Planning
                   Laurel, Great Streets: We'll complete the first round of meetings as of
 Process
                   today. We'll focus on our analysis.
                   Dan, Great Streets: Until the end of February, we'll gather information
                   and perform critical analysis ­ traffic etc.
                   Rich, Fox: Do you know when you're actually doing the traffic readings?
                   Dan, Great Streets: We've talked with the streets department and haven't
                   yet set this. We'll be looking at historical data, today's counts and
                   forecasting. The streets department is anticipating development on North
                   Grand. Grand and Spring are real sensitive in terms of traffic. Traffic
                   analyses will take place over the next 7 weeks. In late Feb and early March,
                   we'll have a sequence of ideas and meetings where concepts are vetted and
                   input is solicited. At the end of this, we'll combine the best concepts into a
                   single portfolio. This group will be involved in the vetting of the ideas.
                   Another convening of the sub-committees will happen in mid April.
                   Emmy, Pulitzer: I would suggest that Meredith not do a lot without
                   engaging the arts institutions.




                                                                                                    89
Technical Advisory Group                                                   Grand Center
January 11, 2013 Discussion Summary                                  Great Streets Project

Overview
The Technical Advisory Group met with members of the Great Streets (GS) team on
Friday, January 11, 2013. Eleven committee members and Grand Center Inc. (GCI)
representatives participated in the meeting, which was held to accomplish the following
objectives:
    Acquaint committee members with the Great Streets team;
    Provide the team with a detailed understanding of their information and reporting
    needs; and
    Identify critical issues that the team needs to consider during the planning
    process.
A list of meeting attendees is presented below.

Attendance
Committee Members & GCI Representatives:
Don Roe                        City of St. Louis Planning Department
Vince Schoemehl                Grand Center Inc.
Steve Runde                    City of St. Louis
John Kohler                    City of St. Louis
Lan Lam                        Laclede Gas
Al Herl                        Laclede Gas
Mark Hanknil                   City of St. Louis Water Department
Curt Skouby                    City of St. Louis Water Department
George Pappas                  Metropolitan St. Louis Sewer District
Don Stastny                    Stastny Bauer Architects LLC
Betsy Bradly                   City of St. Louis Cultural Resources Office
Todd Waelterman                City of St. Louis Streets Department

Project Team Members:
Dan Jay                        Christner
Laurel Harrington              Christner
Carrie Falkenrath              CBB
Marjorie Melton                M3
Rachel Powers                  Vector Communications
Discussion Summary

 Discussion Topic    Comments
  Meeting            Don, City of St. Louis:
  Purpose            Great Streets funding is a terrific overall planning context and flushed
                     things out at a high conceptual level and the technical advisory committee
                     group flowed from that. Planning and Urban Design often makes plans in a
                     vacuum and frequently there is a gotcha because they didn't problem solve
                     correctly. The TAG will help problem solve early.



                                                                                                  90
Discussion Focus Comments
 Meeting        Don, Framework Plan:
 Purpose        Thank you to members of the TAG for work on the Framework Plan. You
 Continued      were helpful with your input and the plan has set the stage for you all to
                look at different aspects that you will be dealing with in the future. The
                point is that you are a part of helping us and Grand Center going forward.
                Vince was able to secure a grant from East-West gateway and we plan to
                move the conceptual plan forward. The biggest part now is scoping the
                consultant's work that will start from the conceptual plan and move to a
                higher level, which is higher than what East-West gateway would normally
                see. I think the consultants have a good grasp of this. The consultant team
                has been going through a series of meetings. We met with those folks from
                Grand Center and other committees. We are kicking them off at a very high
                level and want the consultants to come to you for a high level start off.
                Vince, GCI:
                Thanks for your help during the Framework Plan. There are a couple of
                other grants we are working on, one from MSD through the EPA is being
                reviewed. Grand Center is looking at a Metrolink station at Grand that will
                hook into the Hodiamont track. This would create a loop from St. Vincent's
                park through the greenway to Hodiamont. GRG has committed $100,000 to
                develop conceptual plans for a bike path through SLU's campus to Grand.
                We are doing interviews with consultants on the 18th and will select
                quickly. Another grant is from the NEA for an Art Walk. We will select
                another consultant for this. Our hope is that within 4 weeks we will have all
                of these pieces decided and consolidated.
                Dan, Great Streets:
                We want to outline a process and schedule and discuss how we will engage
                the TAG. We want to anticipate infrastructure issues now rather than 18
                months from now. Lets integrate issues from all parties, which may come
                up in the next 20 years to work on now. We want constructive commentary
                on what we are planning and hope to engage in a discussion that reduces
                our number of surprises. Our effort to collect documentation is
                cumbersome, so any other anecdotal information that you are aware of
                about stormwater, traffic, or utilities is helpful.
                Laurel, Great Streets:
                We literally kicked off Monday evening. We had meetings yesterday with
                other committees. Our plan is to get smart about existing conditions until
                the end of February, beginning of March when we'll have an open charette
                meeting. We appreciate your time and will engage you again with notions
                of things and aesthetic choices. We will have diagrams of what we think
                and ask you for your feedback. Then we will really get into design and put
                things on paper. Following this, we'll engage you again to really dig into
                the details. We will be wrapping up the end of May with our report.

                For the new people, here's an overview. We are looking at Olive to Cook,
                with middle Grand as a transition at Lindell with SLU's campus. The
                Framework Plan has Grand as the major spine, Washington is the transept.




                                                                                                91
               Other streets are called corridors and boundaries of the district. Cook gets
               us up steeple to steeple. Green areas include the Art Walk, a possible
               greenway connection, a formal circus flora location with year round festival
               space for the district and greening the streets (i.e. midblock pedestrian
               connections). It's a very large district. Our primary focus is the street
               proper; there may be some connection points, but the biggest focus is the
               streets with land use opportunities. We are really looking for input on the
               street aspect. Where appropriate, we may widen sidewalks and narrow
               streets, protrusions, bio retentions and rain gardens. We are interested in
               what's under the streets and your plans for the future.

               Yesterday we heard about signal timing, fast speeds on Washington, signal
               timing for low vision or blind residents, lighting, and a lot of really good
               stuff. You have been working in this city for a really long time and have
               expertise that is invaluable to us.

               Dan, Great Streets:
               Grand Center has been doing a lot to make this the intersection of art and
               life; we will succeed with really repopulating residential and commercial
               with good design. When we look at traffic and utility we will say what if
               there were another 2,000 units here and what would happen. The pace of
               change in this area is phenomenal and we want to catch up, the last of the
               buildings to be restored will start construction in the spring since the Sun
               Theatre is already under construction.
 Team Roles    Laurel, Great Streets:
               I'm project manager, Dan is principal in charge, Hirschad is our design firm
               from Chicago. I'm real familiar with their firm, Peter and John here today
               will lead, also Marjorie Melton from M3 looking at stormwater utility and
               sustainable issues, Grandmeier is looking at transportation and traffic in and
               beyond the district to get to through around and in and out. There are lots of
               other people on the team as well.

 TAC ­         Don ­ City Planning:
 Assessment    To meld things together we don't have a nice once stop shop infrastructure
 Information   map with all things listed that have been there before. Sometimes we cheat.
 Gathering     We are in the mode where we have to assemble, we have a team and
               experience working together and some things have been shared, if you sent
               some electronic files we will dig them up and forward them on. In the early
               stages, we got things; Christner is in the role of synthesizing. Don't be
               surprised if you get another call to get things sent in again. I remember an
               earlier situation...well we will try to reach out to get more things. In
               stimulating people's memory from conceptual level if there are key things
               from the team that we can be reminded of can be good in that realm.

               Dan, Great Streets:
               We don't have any actual engineering in the scope. Marjorie's role is to
               give an engineering perspective that should be considered and how it
               should be integrated. But it will not get into detail of problem resolution.




                                                                                                92
Todd, City Streets:
We don't want to go down a wrong path. There are a lot of private owner
things to consider that should be addressed now. Everyone makes that
problem early.

John ­ City of St. Louis:
We need to bring in Metro early. There are issues with the buses hindering
traffic.

Don ­ City of St. Louis:
We do need to think about other people that need to be here. Ameren,
Metro, another one is our ADA compliance guy ­ Dave Neuberger. He will
happily participate.

Todd, City Streets:
Payne is another one.




                                                                             93
Discussion Focus Comments
 TAG ­            Mark, City of St. Louis:
 Infrastructure   Lots of basement issues have caused issues because they weren't stable.
 Concerns         Need to knock on doors and get in to see those. There haven't been a lot of
                  new developments along Grand. We need to ask what development they
                  have in mind and put in things early while the street is being redeveloped.

                  John, City of St. Louis:
                  I did do a project on Grand. Please schedule a meeting with BPS for
                  historical surveys.

                  Laurel, Great Streets:
                  I already got from Mike Miller

                  John, City of St. Louis:
                  We have cad drawings to 2010, survey, and historical data to fill in gaps.
                  Those are original design drawings.

                  Laurel, Great Streets:
                  We've got that stuff and will put together spacing this afternoon. Any other
                  way to get a vision in the street would be great.

                  Lan, Laclede:
                  What about gas?

                  Laurel, Great Streets:
                  That will be a mystery to us.

                  Lan, Laclede Gas:
                  You can send a request to Laclede.
                  Dan, Great Streets:
                  The main issues will be along Grand and Olive because of the buildings. I
                  assume issues are with developed buildings rather than vacated sites. You
                  might have a foundation you will have to destroy.
                  John, City of St. Louis:
                  There are vaults that need talking about.
                  Don, City of St. Louis:
                  There are very few remaining vaults
                  Todd, City Streets:
                  It gets really expensive with the vaults and building new walls.

TAG ­ Traffic     Dan, Great Streets:
Concerns          Slowing of traffic lanes and through the district. The basic process is that
                  we will do our investigation with traffic counts and meeting with Metro and
                  come up with a range of solutions for you to comment on. The framework
                  plan does suggest street profiles ­ the earlier the comments from you the




                                                                                                 94
                    better, otherwise it will become much more specific. Our purpose is the
                    slow traffic; redirect traffic on Grand on the exit of the shows.

                    Todd, City Streets:
                    Grand is a big take as a major street. Taking of Grand Avenue lanes will be
                    a big sell to us considering big bus routes and the north side development
                    that might come after our lifetime.

                    John, City of St. Louis:
                    Is CBB doing a full traffic analysis?

                    Carrie, Great Streets:
                    We are not modeling, but we are doing capacity and volume, existing
                    capacity and future capacity and how they match and also the parallel
                    streets and how they can be better utilized for flow through on the streets so
                    it's bigger than just looking at Grand.

                    John, St. Louis City:
                    Is there a specific deliverable?

                    Carrie:
                    Yes.

                    Don, City Planning:
                    Grand often gets like the St. Louis Zoo, people get ingrained in their way

                    Todd, City Streets:
                    We have to train them, people have their route, we are looking at special
                    programming and how to redirect traffic and Grand is a part of that. The
                    worst is the Monster Truck event and all those people come in from 100
                    miles away and clog up the streets because that's the only way they know.

TAG ­ Opening       Vince, GCI:
Theresa Ave.        Yesterday we had this same issue. Paul said I believe, 90% of people who
                    go to Sheldon use Vandeventer ­ they had to train them that way. Now, in
                    my mind the largest issue is reopening Teresa at Olive. Closing that just
                    screwed up parking east of Grand and forced people to go up Grand, which
                    narrows at Lindell. If we can get that open we can open that up and have
                    lots of parking along Teresa if you don't want Compton. If you think of
                    major destinations, Fox parking is both sides of Grand, Sheldon has lots
                    adjacent, the Symphony will be the most difficult to go to Compton, but for
                    Theresa they are comfortable.

                    Todd, City Streets:
                    Tell us who controls Teresa.

                    Vince, GCI:
                    SLU and it's in front of them and they are considering.
TAG ­ Pedestrian    Dan, Great Streets:
Crossing Concerns   You've identified a major issue of pedestrian crossing at Grand and Lindell
                    and there is no signalized pedestrian walk between Grand and Compton and



                                                                                                     95
                      more and more students are crossing to go to the new developments.

                      Todd, City Streets:
                      We have a conduit there, and we are ready, but it takes money.

                      Don, City Planning:
                      We have to look at 7 days a week

                      Vince, GCI:
                      Carrie will you do counts yourself or look at what exists.

                      Carrie, Great Streets:
                      We will get existing unless its critical we will do it ourselves.

                      Don, City Planning:
                      We engage CBB to get these counts.

                      Vince, GCI:
                      There are two times when there is traffic on Grand ­ shows let out and VA
                      lets out and it exists for about 10 mins

                      Carrie, Great Streets:
                      We just finished study for VA where we got counts and we are meshing all
                      these various projects together to figure it out

                      Todd, City Streets:
                      We are not taking into account more development. Ideally growth to the
                      north and that will bring more people. We are seeing a ripple effect across
                      Delmar. We are seeing a solid role north of Delmar and it should turn over
                      every eight years. We've been swamped this year with all the small mom
                      and pops doing things.

                      Dan, Great Streets:
                      The VA employees are an easy group to engage and change their behaviors

                      Vince, GCI:
                      The VA is very engaged with us and we can communicate with them.
TAG ­ Critical        Dan, Great Streets:
Projects in Next 10   On the storm water side, are there any issues over next 10 years?
Years
                      George, MSD:
                      Not that I know of, John Grim may know more so I will ask him when he
                      returns.

                      Dan, Great Streets:
                      What's critical is what we can anticipate, so Grand Center can plan and
                      anticipate and time all these projects together.

                      Don, City Planning:
                      We have lots of pockets any forward ideas.




                                                                                                    96
                 Curt, City Water:
                 We don't have ideas on the table now, but we will be looking to see if we
                 need to do something.

                 Don, City Planning:
                 Todd can we get an estimation to cheaply do these assessments.

                 Todd, City Streets:
                 You have to go in every door and go in the basements and find all laterals.
                 Look at what was done on Grand to help with the other side streets. Take a
                 GPS.

                 Mark, City Water:
                 You can generally look at sidewalks for grates and boxes ­ if there is one,
                 you need to go in and check it out.

                 Todd, City Streets:
                 You can look at utility maps and the big empty spaces mean there is
                 something there you need to investigate.

                 Vince, GCI:
                 We have done two full surveys on Grand the side streets have a lot of
                 parking lots so we are going to have to figure out the best way to do it.

                 Dan, Great Streets:
                 It will be contingency costs.

                 Todd, City Streets:
                 If there aren't buildings why is this an issue just knock on a few buildings.

                 Dan, Great Streets:
                 Are all the sewers down the streets or alleys?

                 Mark, City Water:
                 We need to look at vacated areas because at some point it could have been a
                 street.

                 Todd, City Streets:
                 "Dig Right" it and they will paint it all up for you then go out there and
                 walk it you will be 90% right.

                 Mark, City Water:
                 Don't paint it if you can look a drawing you will piss people off.

                 Todd, City Streets:
                 Paint it; let them know something is new!

TAG - Lighting   Laurel, Great Streets:
                 Can you tell us about the street lights Todd, they are putting new lights on
                 Grand right?




                                                                                                 97
Todd, City Streets:
They had that old 110 electric that is all junk now, it might still be there but
it's junk.

Don, City Planning:
It was 110 system for Christmas lights and things but its shot.

Steve, City of St. Louis:
Those lights are 40 50 years old.

Vince, GCI:
They've been out since around 1990.

Steve, City of St. Louis:
BPS dug up streets and if you dig more you will hit that and if you are
digging things up it's easy to put new conduit down. If they dig and nick
the conduit nothing will happen until 6 months later then you have to dig it
up again and mess up anything new that was developed.

John, City Streets:
Is it anticipated to have Christmas lighting for these roads installed?

Dan, Great Streets:
Yes, it's a starting assumption.

John, City Streets:
Streets dept. rule is to lay new conduit so those costs need to be included in
the plan.

Todd, City Streets:
Then you have substations.

Vince, GCI:
How many are out there?

Steve, City of St. Louis:
About 2 on Grand, there could be more based on area zones.

John, City Streets:
The culver system has reached its life span and we are replacing.

Don, City Planning:
Is there a lighting designer on the team?

Dan, Great Streets:
Yes, Randy Burkett.

Don, City Planning:
Are we looking at lighting for panache?

Peter, Great Streets:



                                                                                   98
                Yes, it is for panache and safety and very costly.

                Laurel, Great Streets:
                We are going to ID quantity of things needed and level of finish so we can
                build a logical cost model and phasing to target funding. So the more we
                can be smart about costs up front, the better. We will be limited by the costs
                to survey the area, but we want to do the best we can to get a good model.

TAG ­ Artwalk   Don, City Planning:
Update          We are probably to the place to adjourn but let's discuss Artwalk.

                Vince, GCI:
                Two things that involve private property ­ SLU, Scottish Rite, KWMU,
                KETC, Sheldon, Grand Center, Contemporary pulled grant money together
                to invest in the ArtWalk. It will cross Olive, Washington, on both sides of
                Washington then up Spring to the burnt church. It will have a focus to get
                people to enter and penetrate these 1500 ft. long blocks. Get from the
                Scottish Rite to SLU and museums easier. Sheldon currently can't get
                people to use the garage because of the long walk. So Artwalk is going to
                break up the barriers and connect the museum with the KWMU area,
                Sheldon, galleries and church.

                Don, City Planning:
                The purpose of the ArtWalk is more for that connection than a linear city
                garden.

                Vince, GCI:
                It's more about connectivity and I'm sure people will stick art in there. The
                other group is private land owners from Mrs. Pulitzer, Johnny Wong who
                owns the Chinese restaurant, they have all come up with $50,000 for real
                estate analysis, merchandising, and commercial development to build a
                district. Rich Baker of FOX is chairing the Land Use and Business District
                committees to be consistent. So that is going on simultaneously. We have a
                grant in to MSD for $750,000 that will be need to be approved by the EPA
                hopefully by the end of the month. $250,000 of that is recommended for
                engineering to incorporate CSOs, etc. We've got 8 acres of asphalt so
                280,000 ft. of hard surface street and hard surface parking lots, plus stuff
                that comes off roofs of buildings. If we can get things built in now we can
                look at other things for the system.

                Dan, Great Streets:
                Let's go around the room for all advice direction and warning

                George, City of St. Louis:
                I'm new, so I've got nothing to add.

                Dan, Great Streets:
                We will also speak to Mr. Grimm.

                Betsy, City Cultural Resources:
                We need to be cognizant that with street changes and storm water in a



                                                                                                 99
                  historic district, issues may come into the picture. We have to think about
                  the implications of federal money being used.

                  Laurel, Great Streets:
                  How can we be smarter about historic district concerns?

                  Betsy, City Cultural Resources:
                  We can have a conversation about how to have a look at street scape but
                  I'm not sure how we look at storm water issues in an historic district.

                  Todd, City Streets:
                  Did anything come up with South Grand project, it's similar?

                  Betsy, City Cultural Resources:
                  All of that planning happened before I joined the department.

                  Vince, GCI:
                  There is a federal historic national designation that existed before we did it
                  locally. In the 1980's we had to go to the Department of Interior before they
                  allowed states to handle historic districts.

                  Betsy, City Cultural Resources:
                  I will check into South Grand for clues.

TAG ­ Water       Curt, City Water:
Service, Street   This approach is great, talking up front to utilities; we have to identify
Car Tracks, and   utilities early and potential service lines so they can be addressed up front.
Wrap Up
                  Dan, Great Streets:
                  Some of it involves money because we can't spend $30,000 for future
                  sewers while doing sidewalk work now.

                  John, City of St. Louis:
                  City water requires a developer to pay for the cost of relocations so that
                  should be part of the estimate.

                  Mark, City Water:
                  Anytime you move curbs and change the water to behind the curb then it's
                  private and not ours. You have a good sense of what we have, my concerns
                  are Washington and Grandel because if you put the main lines behind the
                  curb and put a tree on top of it - that will be a problem for us. We have a
                  pretty good break history 36 inch main on Grand, etc., so if you start talking
                  about medians you will be all over us - long term its not a good thing. If
                  developers are thinking of doing things they better do it when the street is
                  dug up because Todd can put a moratorium on develop after that.

                  Don S., Stastny:
                  The way you treat a street, both sides aren't equal and as you weave the
                  sidewalk system, just think, as a historic area the utilities may be different
                  than the normal pattern.




                                                                                                   100
Mark, City Water:
There is a lot of water in the district so that's not a problem.

Laurel, Great Streets:
Big parking lots redeveloped into mixed use isn't a problem

Mark, City Water:
They can get water ­ there is enough water and pressure, so they are not a
problem.

Don, City Planning:
Water fountains?

Vince, GCI:
It will all be recycled rain water LOL

Mark, City Water:
You also have the original streetcar tracks, which are rally expensive.

Laurel, Great Streets:
Let's reveal them.

Mark, City Water:
No one seems to have a good map of these lines, but there is a book with a
pretty good map in it. When you uncover them they tend to unravel.

Vince, GCI:
Is the original pavement concrete or cobblestone?

John, City of St. Louis:
They are usually reinforced concrete 3 feet deep.

Mark, City Water:
You really can't cut them out it's difficult.

Don, City Planning:
It's a reason why they were left!

Vince, GCI:
Can we reuse those rails?

Mark, City Water:
Not really it's clay with water issues, light rail, so most of it, I doubt you
can use again.

Dan, Great Streets:
But you can encapsulate and cover up with new rail.

Mark, City Water:
Yes




                                                                                 101
Al, Laclede:
We can get GIS plotted if they ask.

Dan, Great Streets:
Is it accurate, yes, within a couple feet. The lines are over 50 years old.

Lan, Laclede:
There are double mains two pressure systems on Grand and they will stay
there. A rain garden will affect our services. Civic plans that come in early
we can work with you for relocations.

John, City of St. Louis:
This project will incorporate a lot of green infrastructure the issue is at the
city, if the entity has independently funded a green program anything non-
typical we want the district to maintain ultimately. Let me go back to a
comment you made Wednesday, Vince. I will be the lead point at the city to
submit any federal applications. I want to get on the front end of that to
organize all the requests.

Don, City Planning:
Ameren has participated in the past so they are in. There are other people.
Are there others we should include? Glenn Payne - Traffic guy, Metro.

Don S., Stastny:
When will we reengage?

Dan, Great Streets:
We will contact you over the next 6 weeks possibly February 27 ­ 1st of
March as a charette date and we will confirm and get back to you because
we need to check schedules. We will put a lot of ideas on the wall for
critique before going to a plan. Following the plan we will do more detailed
plan development. We may break into sub groups ­ subsurface, traffic, etc.
thanks for everyone coming.




                                                                                102
Theresa Corridor Sub-Committee                                                Grand Center
January 10, 2013 Discussion Summary                                     Great Streets Project

Overview
The Theresa Corridor Sub-Committee met with members of the Great Streets (GS) team
on Thursday, January 10, 2013. Eleven committee members and Grand Center Inc.
(GCI) representatives participated in the meeting, which was held to accomplish the
following objectives:
    Acquaint committee members with the Great Streets team;
    Provide the team with information on the committee's work to date; and
    Identify critical corridor issues that the team needs to consider during the planning
    process.
A list of meeting attendees is presented below.

Attendance
Committee Members & GCI Representatives:
Peter Bunce                     Grand Center Inc.
Rich Baker                      Fox Associates, LLC
Richard Nuelle                  Nuelle's Automotive
Kay Nuelle                      Nuelle's Automotive
Gary Clark                      American Automotive
Alexus Wong                     Sunrise Chinese Restaurant
Mon Wong                        Sunrise Chinese Restaurant
Tom Kurtz                       Third Baptist Church
Steve Smith                     The Lawrence Group
Vince Schoemehl                 Grand Center Inc.
Don Stastny                     Stastny Architect
Project Team Members:
Dan Jay                        Christner
Laurel Harrington              Christner
Peter Schaudt                  Hoerr Schaudt Landscape Architects
Jon Brooke                     Hoerr Schaudt Landscape Architects
Rebeccah Bennett               Vector Communications
Discussion Summary

 Discussion Topic    Comments
  Meeting's          Dan, Great Streets: We want to hear from you today about Theresa and
  Purpose            how it connects to the other aspects of the district. We'd like specific input
                     on 1) the proposal to extend Theresa back out to Olive and 2) the plan to
                     direct patron traffic down Compton to Vandeventer as the best ways to
                     access Grand Center.
  Opening            Vince, GCI: Getting Theresa reopened is important for development.
  Theresa &
                     Peter, GCI: The redirection of traffic has been pretty dangerous.
  Redirecting
  Traffic



                                                                                                      103
Discussion Topic   Comments
 Opening           Gary, American Automotive: Traffic redirection has forced a lot of
 Theresa &         traffic on Compton. It's a four lane street, but its pretty narrow.
 Redirecting
                   Vince, GCI: The traffic light on Olive and Compton needs a left turn
 Traffic
                   signal.
 Continued
                   Steve, Lawrence Group: The Locust Theresa intersection is very
                   unpleasant. We get a lot of pre and post event people who come down to
                   Locust Street and pass a gulf of parking lots to get to their location. Locust
                   Street dead-ends at Theresa. This is a missed opportunity and there are no
                   specific plans to address this. My vision for the triangle if Theresa goes
                   through would be to have a great outdoor plaza that you could drive along.
                   Can you develop the design in a way that it creates a compelling outdoor
                   space? I'm open to suggestions of different ideas.
                   We have been successful because people think they might be able to park in
                   front of the door. The park itself is really a missed opportunity right now.
                   Also, the café in front of Triumph just doesn't work.
 Engagement of     Dan, Great Streets: Do we have anyone representing North Theresa.
 North Theresa
                   Vince, GCI: No, we need to get someone from Renaissance Grand on the
 Stakeholders
                   committee.
 Corridor          Don, Framework Plan: Parking bays are 75 feet wide on some of these
 Improvement       lots and by restriping you'll gain more room for pedestrians without losing
 Ideas             any parking.
                   Steve, Lawrence Group: The Theresa/Washington corner is a great site
                   too. You've got a lot of foot traffic that goes between the two and when
                   you consider where you're placing foot traffic, it could go here. Along here
                   could be retail based buildings with housing above.
                   Dan, Great Streets: It's a scary walk North of Washington. Its scary
                   walking up the street and crossing the parking lot. There is not enough
                   lighting. Addressing this requires lighting and populating the area.
                   Steve, Lawrence Group: To get from the campus to the north side of
                   Olive/Lindell, the only street really is Theresa or cutting through the hotel.
                   So. the pedestrian access to the campus and to any of the adjoining areas
                   goes along Theresa. Here Theresa is a people / human gateway.
                   Don, Framework Plan: There are no crosswalks between Grand and
                   Compton.
                   Peter, GCI: Locust connects us into the Locust business district, which is
                   a thriving district and should be connected to Grand Center.
                   Don, Framework Plan: When you want to establish business startups
                   you're looking for small, inexpensive spaces. Because of the clearance for
                   Grand Center, all of the incubator space has left the district, but it has
                   picked up on Locust. As development occurs along Theresa, on the west
                   side, that same kind of small incubator theme would really work in this area
                   to bring texture along this side.




                                                                                                    104
Discussion Topic   Comments
 Corridor          Peter, GCI: This area is also a good place for residential. Even if you get
 Improvement       more traffic on Theresa, it will never be like Grand.
 Ideas
 Continued
 Development       Peter, GCI: The Framework Plan doesn't address what we see happening
 Opportunities     20 years from now.
                   Dan, Great Streets: While there's growing activity in the corridor, there
                   are big gaps along Josephine Baker and N. Theresa. As you walk up Grand
                   there are fields of asphalt. The Framework Plan refers to a development
                   trend of internal parking with multi-use retail and some housing.
                   Peter, GCI: This should happen very quickly. In Grand Center now, there
                   is no vacant space, so there are no places for people to open up businesses.
                   Just as we beautify the area, we've got to make space available because
                   people will want to locate or relocate here.
                   Vince, GCI: I see this as a prime opportunity to develop housing along
                   Theresa. Between Grand Center and Third Baptist Church, we own all of
                   this land and can do something special. Theresa is a quiet location and it
                   would be easier to accommodate parking here because it's not by big
                   venues. The land use committee has talked about this and identified prime
                   developable pieces of property. Steve will be starting a project behind 634
                   that will have 99 units and he's beginning to lease this next month.
                   Peter, GCI: New development here, however, without quick parking
                   solutions complicates the Symphony's parking. We must move quickly.
                   Vince, GCI: We can create residential units, but need to consider what
                   we'd do with retail on the first floor.
 Parking           Tom, Third Baptist Church: We need parking on Sundays for church
                   services and on Wednesday evenings. With the school in the building, we
                   also needed parking for school visitors. We have 3 basic parking lots. We
                   have the south lot, the lot next to the building, and the bigger lot next to the
                   drive. On Sundays, we also use the Grand Center lot until the afternoon.
                   Peter, GCI: The model in the framework plan recommends lots of
                   commercial and residential on the perimeter and parking obscured in the
                   center.
                   Vince, GCI: It's a complicated set of moving parts. What comes first?
                   Peter, GCI: Sequencing is important. If we do green space for circus flora
                   and 634 gets occupied, what about parking for Powell? We'll have
                   worsened the parking issue. This really needs to be addressed. I see
                   Theresa being on a scale like you find in Maplewood. Theresa is the
                   quietest street in the district. And, there is space here to address parking.
                   Vince, GCI: Who on the Great Streets team analyzes parking?
                   Dan, Great Streets: CBB and part of their work will be to understand the
                   development plan's implications on parking numbers.




                                                                                                      105
Discussion Topic   Comments
 Parking           Vince, GCI: The Scottish Rite garage has 550 spaces and they've never
 Continued         sold more than 150 spaces on a Fox night. We've got an excess of 400
                   spaces that have gone begging in this garage, even when the Fox is up and
                   full. This has to be incorporated into the decision about where you go first
                   in your first project.
                   Laurel, Great Streets: Part of the issue with parking garages is that they
                   look like you're not allowed to be there.
                   Peter, GCI: One complication of the parking garages in Grand Center is
                   that everyone's leaving at the same time. So new garages would need to
                   provide multiple forms of egress.
 Positive &        Tom, Third Baptist Church: Theresa is not very busy, which is positive.
 Negative          We don't use it very much. It's a little scary north of Washington because
 Attributes of     it's dark. The sidewalks are narrow and uneven. Some curb-cuts are still
 Theresa           there and crumbling. On the west side of Theresa, there are some old paver
                   blocks. It's been neglected for a lot of years.
                   Steve, Lawrence Group: Two streets begin and end in the district ­
                   Grandel Square and Theresa. They provide an intimacy that can be taken
                   advantage of.
                   Alexus, Sunrise: I have no particular affinity for Theresa.
 Circus Flora      Peter, GCI: If we do convert the park at the north end, it's an opportunity
                   to make it a more useful street for the people who live there.
                   Circus Flora performs on Theresa and likes it there, but it's not an ideal
                   place now. In the summer, people who perform there bring their trailers
                   and stay while the show runs, so it's like a little village back there. It's hot
                   because there's no shade. I think part of the answer is to replace the black
                   top with grass. But the green space has to be functional. It could be
                   programmed for the circus while its up and then for other things the rest of
                   the year. For the circus' use, however, it must remain flat. Also, grass can
                   be a bit of a problem depending on weather conditions and the circus'
                   technical demands (air streams etc.). Additionally, the site needs the
                   availability of water and electricity.
                   Gary, American Automotive: I'm willing to accommodate circus flora
                   for six weeks because I've got another facility across the street that I can
                   move my cars to.
                   Steve, Lawrence Group: Turning the Circus Flora space into a "park" at
                   the end of the street enhances its residential utility and appeal.
                   Rich, Fox: My pipe dream is that I'd love to have things in the big park all
                   year round, like the London Eye which you could see from downtown to
                   Clayton. This could provide a reason for people to come consistently other
                   than for events. It would serve as a vertical beacon. We could call ours the
                   Eye on St. Louis. It would be something that makes Grand Center totally
                   distinct, that you couldn't see anywhere else.
Discussion Topic   Comments



                                                                                                      106
 Needs That      Rich, Nuelle's Automotive: A parking lot on Theresa and Washington
 Have Not Been   could provide first floor parking right now and could later be converted
 Addressed       over to stores after you get more parking. Theresa and Washington is the
                 hottest spot.
                 Laurel, Great Streets: What's happening with the section of Theresa
                 north of the area ­ from Delmar to Bell?
                 Peter, GCI: That's really separate from Grand Center.
                 Rich, Fox: You might get people from this area to come into the park.
                 Don, Framework Plan: The character of this section will change
                 dramatically in the next couple of years given the VA's plan. It's all prime
                 for development.
                 Vince, GCI: If we did something here, it would be a mixed use
                 development with housing for veterans. The other thing this neighborhood
                 needs is a public library because we have five schools within walking
                 distance and there's no library.
 Short-Term      Dan, Great Streets: With Locust and Washington becoming more
 Strategies To   pedestrian friendly, what are the qualities that work that we should be
 Improve         thinking about as we endeavor to make this a very special place? My
 Theresa         question has to do with short-term strategies, independent of the
                 redevelopment projects that you all have discussed.
                 Don, Framework Plan: Theresa's almost on the edge. The east side is
                 relatively built up. This is one of the key connection streets, providing
                 connection to the south. How it feeds down Locust, Washington and
                 Samuel Shephard matters. All the economic activity starting in the east
                 wants to come up and join into Grand center. The way that you treat
                 Theresa as a right of way has to have some thought in terms of how it
                 impacts other connection opportunities. Locust is narrow with very little
                 right of way.
                 Steve, Lawrence Group: We've thought of the east side of Theresa as the
                 young side of the district with its nightclubs etc. West of Theresa is the
                 established institutions with the Symphony. Where the building front
                 happens along the west side of Theresa can be decided in the future because
                 there aren't existing conditions we have to plan around. However, might
                 our work make possible the development of the west side of Theresa in the
                 short-term so that it functions as a residential / retail / incubator?
                 Dan, Great Streets: The Framework Plan identifies Washington and
                 Theresa as a major gateway into the district. Here we're looking at traffic
                 calming and have to think very hard about pedstrian crossings. Tom: It's
                 also a festival street.
 Grand Center    Alexus, Sunrise: What kind of demographics are you trying to bring into
 Demographics    Grand Center? Are you targeting all of the various users of the district or
                 particular ones?




                                                                                                107
Discussion Topic   Comments
 Grand Center      Dan, Great Streets: I see the Grand Center demographics being extremely
 Demographics      mixed, in terms of age and income. I see Locust appealing more to young
 Continued         people. The mix of venues and activities in Grand Center is rich and speaks
                   to different groups.
                   Don, Framework Plan: I asked a similar question to Alex's of Father
                   Biondi when I first became acquainted with Grand Center. Very few
                   students at SLU used the district. It was seen by students as an elitist old
                   folks place. We started looking then at other things happening in the
                   district. We've got schools and every cultural entity has youth programs,
                   but it was always the kind of thing where young people would come in for
                   an event and leave. To change these dynamics, we've got to address
                   housing and add services that go along with housing. This will help us shift
                   our demographic appeal. We want greater diversity.
                   Peter, Great Streets: This community needs a gathering space (piazza)
                   where people can go that's programmed to bring people together to
                   celebrate the community.
                   Dan, Great Streets: The media plaza/commons is intended to do this.
                   Alexus, Sunrise: Trying to be all things to all people is kind of a hard to
                   sell, you don't have a singular demographic focal point. I would, however,
                   err on the side of being more diverse and inclusive.
 Branding          Vince, GCI: We've been talking to the guy that is the founder of Beale
                   Street in Memphis about branding. The cultural institutions in the
                   community each have their own brand. But if they all start to come
                   together and share a tagline (like Plush in Grand Ceter), we'd develop an
                   identity that's eclectic and attractive. We've got to look for ways to brand
                   the neighborhood with Grand Center being the sub-brand and the
                   destinations being the primary brand. This will get people to feel like the
                   neighborhood provides a wide selection of offerings. We will have to
                   figure out, however, how we connect these things as we move forward.
                   Rich, Fox: Grand Center's mistake is that it has only one look and feel.
                   There is a way to appeal to a broad group, but you have to be able to target
                   them. Our image right now is not directed to young people. We've got to
                   reach new audiences and businesses, or the activity dies.
                   Peter, GCI: Art and Life is our logo. The art is down here, but the life
                   isn't.




                                                                                                  108
Washington Corridor Sub-Committee                                               Grand Center
January 10, 2013 Discussion Summary                                       Great Streets Project

Overview
The Washington Corridor Sub-Committee met with members of the Great Streets (GS)
team on Thursday, January 10, 2013. Fifteen committee members and Grand Center Inc.
(GCI) representatives participated in the meeting, which was held to accomplish the
following objectives:
    Acquaint committee members with the Great Streets team;
    Provide the team with information on the committee's work to date; and
    Identify critical corridor issues that the team needs to consider during the planning
    process.
A list of meeting attendees is presented below.

Attendance
Committee Members & GCI Representatives:
Mandy Schulte                  University Plaza
Paul Reuter                    The Sheldon
Stan Jones                     Property Owner / Resident
Rich Baker                     Fox Associates, LLC
Mon Wong                       Sunrise Chinese Restaurant
Alexus Wong                    Sunrise Chinese Restaurant
Kristina Van Dyke              Pulitzer Foundation for the Arts
Catherine Werner               City of St. Louis, Sustainability Office
Pam Trapp                      Jazz St. Louis
Ronnie Greenberg               The Greenberg Gallery
Beverly Hacker                 KDHX
Steve Smith                    The Lawrence Group
Ken Christian                  Stellar Management
Vince Schoemehl                Grand Center Inc.
Don Stastny                    Stastny Architect
Project Team Members:
Dan Jay                        Christner
Laurel Harrington              Christner
Peter Schaudt                  Hoerr Schaudt Landscape Architects
Jon Brooke                     Hoerr Schaudt Landscape Architects
Rebeccah Bennett               Vector Communications
Discussion Summary

 Discussion Topic    Comments
  Art Walk           Vince, GCI: Discussed the Art Walk (AW) Committee's outcomes and
  Overview           newly proposed route. He explained the alteration of the route as well as its
                     two-tiered funding from the National Endowment for the Arts and local
                     institutions. He also discussed the AW's planning progress and purpose ­
                     to connect visual arts institutions in the neighborhood.



                                                                                                  109
Discussion Topic   Comments
 Art Walk          Vince, GCI: Described the AW Committee's next steps, which include
 Overview          identifying three design consultant prospects and then vetting these
 Continued         designers to make a selection within the next several weeks.
 Meeting's         Vince, GCI: The purpose of this meeting is to determine where we go
 Purpose           from here.
                   Dan, Great Streets: Today we want to have a dialogue about issues,
                   concerns and opportunities along this corridor.
 Institutional     Vince, GCI: We'd like to hear from the institutions along the corridor
 Undertakings      regarding their development and programming efforts. This helps to set the
 In The Corridor   context so that the Great Streets team understands what's being pursued
                   right now.
                   Beverly, KDHX: We're in the process of planning a coffee shop and
                   venue??? We have another building that's being used by the ??? School of
                   St. Louis. We also have a long-term arrangement with the Grandel Theater
                   to host its square dancing classes. Our offices and broadcast facilities are
                   located on Washington. We're hoping to get in by June. Our projects are
                   being designed by The Lawrence Group. We're excited by the angle
                   parking that just went in; it's working well.
                   Pam, Jazz St. Louis: We're in the early stage of fundraising to purchase
                   our existing building and possibly expand its footprint by buying an
                   adjacent building. Our expansion would include a center for jazz with a
                   restaurant and education programs. We will know the extent of our project
                   based upon our fundraising outcomes by March. Our biggest issue is
                   parking.
                   Kristina, Pulitzer: In the lot next to the Bruno Gallery, the Contemporary
                   Art Museum (CAM) is partnering with the Sam Fox School to develop a
                   community engagement project that would allow CAM and the Pulitzer to
                   do something together. It would involve a competition for young designers
                   and architects. They'll create a project for this site and have a year to
                   develop plans and then install it. The idea is to engage the community in a
                   different, contemporary way that's inspired by the art project.
                   Paul, Sheldon: The Sheldon has now combined with the lot to the west of
                   the hall. The AW walkway goes along the western edge of the current
                   building. We currently have plans to undertake a major expansion (5 to 10
                   years away) that would bring the World Music Museum and Sheldon into a
                   shared space with parking.
                   Vince, GCI: GCI is concerned with public right of way. Rich Baker is
                   heading the Land-Use Committee and the Plan Implementation Committee
                   to ensure coherence and continuity in our many planning efforts.
                   Alexus, Sunrise: Sunrise is now attracting a different clientele. We're
                   offering more authentic Chinese cuisine and more area employees and
                   students are coming to dine. We need to try to develop the parking lot area.




                                                                                                  110
Discussion Topic   Comments
 Institutional     Stan, Property Owner: My house is on the National Register. I'm trying
 Undertakings      to make it historically accurate and have it continue to be an asset to the
 In The Corridor   neighborhood. I'm totally restoring the carriage house. I'll also add a
 Continued         double car garage that will be historically appointed. I will continue to
                   landscape the property and at some point open it up to share with others.
 Needs Not         Rich, Fox: The sidewalks are so narrow that people run into the trees. The
 Being             sidewalks should be expanded to make them more pedestrian friendly, safer
 Addressed ­       and ADA compliant.
 Sidewalks &
                   Car speeds on Washington are also too fast ­ often 50 to 55 mph in the
 Car Speeds,
                   middle of the day. We can't count on parking spaces to slow vehicular
 Lanes &
                   traffic. We could put a circle or other option to slow cars along this
 Parking
                   corridor.
                   Stan, Property Owner: Having been here now for 17 years, I don't see
                   the need for double lanes. Even when venues have events, largely one lane
                   is being used.
                   The sidewalks could be widened and parking could be better
                   accommodated. Only 3 feet for the sidewalks could make the street more
                   user-friendly.
 Traffic Flow      Dan, Great Streets: The worst traffic conditions involve moving people in
 During Peak       and out when the shows get out.
 Times & Bus &
                   Rich, Fox: We're starting to encourage people to leave not by going to
 Truck Lane
                   Grand but by going in the other direction. We're making some progress
 Usage
                   with this.
                   We're fine with narrowing lanes, but keep in mind that our shows involve
                   big trucks and sometimes we park them on the streets even though we try to
                   limit this. When we do a school show, we also have lots of school buses.
                   We have to have this flexibility to take care of the times when we need the
                   space.
                   Paul, Sheldon: We've got the same school bus issues. The width of
                   parking spaces is necessary for the trucks and actually more often the
                   school buses.
                   Dan, Great Streets: Does this tend to be at a different time of day than the
                   evening crunch events?
                   Paul, Sheldon: School buses are an issue in the mornings for us at the
                   Sheldon and for Rich during his matinees. In general, Grand Center is
                   unique in terms of its tri-location of the visual arts, performing arts, and
                   public media. We can't compare ourselves at all to South Grand and the
                   Loop, which have narrow street spaces, because we're moving people going
                   to traditional concerts at a number of venues. These all start at the same
                   time and exit at the same time. While we've said that we would like to
                   narrow the streets to encourage pedestrian activity and shopping, let's not
                   forget that we also have venue oriented traffic users who want to get in and
                   out quickly.




                                                                                               111
Discussion Topic   Comments
 Accessing The     Dan, Great Streets: The Framework Plan recommends using Vandeventer
 District & More   and Compton as primary entry and exit ways.
 Bus & Truck
                   Paul, Sheldon: Ninety percent of our visitors already use alternatives to
 Issues
                   Grand.
                   Vince, GCI: This isn't the case with Symphony visitors.
                   Rich, Fox: Most of our visitors are from West County and they're already
                   concerned about safety.
                   With regard to the bus and truck issue, school buses come during matinees.
                   Concert trucks come early, early in the morning and stay until late at night.
                   Our contracts with entertainers regulate how far the trucks can be from the
                   venue. Also, the truck drivers drive all night, sleep during the day and
                   aren't available to move them. We use the street for truck parking at least
                   10 days a year.
 Traffic &         Dan, Great Streets: Any other thoughts on traffic and parking? We're
 Parking           exploring calming notions and the replacement of surface parking with
                   higher density options.
                   Paul, Sheldon: The Sheldon and Contemporary have a lot of rental events
                   with valet parking. We do 120 rental events a year, not including regular
                   drop-offs for concert events. We need space down at the end of the block,
                   along with the Contemporary. We use the whole front of our Sheldon for
                   drop off and valet.
                   Rich, Fox: We have a private Fox Club. Live theater is like grocery stores
                   where the margins are very thin. We developed a corporate Fox club ­ a
                   private box area where we took some of the worst seats in the theater and
                   made them corporate seating areas that we kept off the manifest. The
                   money raised made the difference between being able to function or not
                   function. This did, however, create a problem for us in that we only had
                   four ADA parking spaces for these users. We've now worked with the
                   Office of the Disabled and pushed this up to 10 spaces, but we still have an
                   ADA problem. It's an odd shape and inefficient garage. In the long range,
                   we're looking at a variety of options. Ideally you'd steer one group one
                   way and one group another. The problem arises when you try to cross
                   traffic both ways.
                   Laurel, Great Streets: How far do you think people should get into the
                   district before they park and walk?
                   Rich, Fox: For us, it all depends on the crowd. If it's a concert they'll
                   walk farther than our Broadway show crowd. Paul has some similar
                   problems.
                   Paul, Sheldon: It depends on the demographics. We serve an older crowd.
                   Pam, Jazz St. Louis: The same is true for us at the Bistro. Our patrons
                   will not walk. They're an older crowd. People have to be able to be
                   dropped off.




                                                                                                   112
Discussion Topic   Comments
 Traffic &         Rich, Fox: We need a plan for parking that converts parking all at the
 Parking           same time. Surface lots get filled first and then garages because people
 Continued         don't want to get stuck. Also, our patrons often leave immediately after the
                   show and don't stick around.
                   Pam, Jazz St. Louis: It's hard to get people to park and then walk across
                   Grand, even along parts of Washington.
 The Park &        Vince, GCI: Another issue has to do with the park and Third Baptist
 Third Baptist     Church. There are 200 linear feet that's pretty much a blank wall. We took
 Church            the hedges down to make it more accessible. We've got some flowers and
                   plantings along the Grand side of the park. I'd like to take this out to make
                   the park even more accessible as well as useable for community markets
                   before and after shows. We've got to do something to enliven the park and
                   the sidewalks in front of Third Baptist Church. During the Framework
                   Plan, Don said we should close this section of Washington and I reflexively
                   said no. But now I think we should widen the sidewalks, add kiosks or do
                   something that activates the street. We've got to spend some time thinking
                   about how to make Third Baptist Church and the park work, because right
                   now their pretty dead.
                   Laurel, Great Streets: How has the stage in the park worked?
                   Vince, GCI: Outdoor concerts at the park in June and July had more
                   people in the band than in the audience because every evening was hotter
                   than 100 degrees. So we're looking to split the season so that it's in April
                   and May and then later in September and October. The stage works in the
                   fall. We extended the season an extra four or five weeks and got some
                   pretty good crowds.
                   Beverly, KDHX: Has anyone considered adding a water feature?
                   Dan, Great Streets: It would be a cool way to deal with the north side of
                   the plaza.
                   Beverly, KDHX: You'd want something that's engaging and zero depth as
                   a water feature.
                   Peter, Great Streets: I noticed the frequency of low historical lighting
                   features and this helps to create the wall that you've been talking about. It
                   may make sense to have fewer light fixtures but have them taller. Un-
                   cluttering spaces can make them more inviting and successful.
                   Beverly, KDHX: Lighting is a really big thing, especially because of
                   safety concerns.
                   Dan, Great Streets: Lighting the buildings is what makes you feel safe,
                   more than lighting the sidewalks.
 Positive &        Pam, Jazz St. Louis: I like the park and would welcome making it truly a
 Negative          jewel. The traffic for us is the biggest problem. There is no left turn on
 Attributes of     Grand at Washington. I think people can be redirected. This will probably
 Washington        be the biggest change.




                                                                                                   113
Discussion Topic   Comments
 Positive &        Beverly, KDHX: The park is really a jewel. The streetscape on the
 Negative          surface lots is the greatest problem.
 Attributes of
                   Steve, Lawrence Group: I'd agree with the green space. There's very
 Washington
                   little grass in the district and it's a joy to have it out in front.
 Continued
                   If you're traveling on Washington going east to west there's no left turn
                   onto Grand, but people do it in spite of the signs prohibiting this behavior.
                   Also, at the highway coming off of 64 onto Grand, there's a no right turn on
                   red sign, but people make right turns any way.
                   Vince, GCI: We could put in left turn signals.
                   Mandi, University Plaza: My favorite attribute would be the park.
                   However, we need to work on parking. We have a lot of residents, but we
                   do not have enough parking for the people who live in our building. We
                   have a waiting list of 15 people who have to find places to park on the street
                   and when there are events, its even more difficult for them to find spaces.
                   Often when there are events, buses will park in front of our building, which
                   makes mail and other deliveries difficult. It takes a lot of time to find
                   parking. Right now we have 34 parking spaces. It's a gated parking lot
                   that has a $70 / month fee. A lot of times our staff members don't have
                   spaces on the lot, so we have to go look for parking. We have people
                   who've been in our building for over 25 years. We have 83 units. Thirty-
                   two of these units are for low income residents and the rest are market rate.
                   Paul, Sheldon: The wealth of the performing arts, visual arts, public media
                   and education institutions that we have in the area is our greatest asset. Our
                   main issue is the connection between and among these community assets.
                   Sidewalks are also an issue. They need to be widened to get people into the
                   district and to have them go to more things when they're here.
                   Stan, Property Owner: I'm a construction guy involved in a lot of
                   residential and some commercial construction. I don't like bushes. I try to
                   enforce a rule that ground cover is 30 inches or lower and trees are trimmed
                   7 feet or higher. We need to get as many trees as possible to soften our
                   fabric. This alone would bring about great change. The usability of the
                   sidewalks is also an issue. The left hand turn going west on Grand can be
                   given up.
                   Rich, Fox: My favorite thing is the park. I don't think it's big enough. I
                   originally spoke strongly of ending Washington right before the park. This
                   alternative might solve some problems. Sometimes a great street is one that
                   ends. It does present some problems for Metro as this is their biggest
                   transfer station. We've also got to figure out the traffic.
                   Alexus, Sunrise: My favorite thing about the corridor is its Chinese
                   restaurant, but I'm biased. The park is my second favorite. In any
                   successful area, like Delmar or the CWE, you don't want to cut off a
                   roadway because it could choke off businesses and hurt growth. There's not
                   enough to support closing off the street yet.




                                                                                                114
Discussion Topic   Comments
 Positive &        Alexus, Sunrise: The main reason people like to hang in the park is
 Negative          because of all the amenities around it.
 Attributes of
                   Laurel, Great Streets: Does it have to be one or the other? Can the street
 Washington
                   be designed in such a way that it's opened at the height of business, but
 Continued
                   closed for events etc.
                   Rich, Fox: This option has worked before, like during First Night.
                   Catherine, City of St. Louis: The wealth and richness of all of you and
                   what you represent is my favorite thing. Softer greener places are good for
                   aesthetic reasons and stormwater management. We must also create
                   opportunities that make spaces in the district more available to people.
                   There aren't easy things for me to do when I'm here, especially with my
                   kid. We want easy things without having to make a big time investment.
                   Whatever I can do to help make this happen would be great.
                   Don, Framework Plan: Stan reminded me about the perception of
                   security. Sidewalks here feel constrained and trapped. What Stan said
                   about trees and vegetation will be part of Great Street's approach. The
                   team will look at how green can be introduced into Grand Center without
                   compounding existing issues ­ diminishing open views and compromising
                   safety etc.
                   Dan, Great Streets: Sidewalks also help populate active and passive uses.
 What's Missing    Beverly, KDHX: People's irrational views of safety in the area mandate
 In Terms Of       some heavy education for patrons. How do you address this ingrained
 The Patron        perception.
 Experience
                   Catherine, City of St. Louis: Window dressing could help address this
                   issue. You can bring signage beyond Grand along the perimeters of the
                   district.
                   Beverly, KDHX: For a lot of people Grand Center is the Fox and the
                   Symphony.
                   Rich, Fox: Our patron population is aging, if we could get better signage it
                   would help a lot. Letters need to be bigger.
                   Vince, GCI: We worked on branded signage and I was disappointed in the
                   final product because you don't see the signs until you've passed them.
 Historic Lights   Vince, GCI: Does anybody have an affinity for the historic lights? Can
                   we just sell them on ebay.
                   Mandi, University Plaza: The existing lights sway in heavy winds. We
                   do need to address the light issue.
                   Rich: When we first put them in, they were distinct from anything else in
                   the city, but we lost light output because of the uniqueness of the bulbs and
                   the city's difficulty in replacing them. This made us conform more to
                   municipal lighting standards. Right now, the lights we have obliterate the
                   marquee and need to change.




                                                                                                   115
Discussion Topic   Comments
 Historic Lights   Beverly, KDHX: I like the solar panel lights on the other side of
 Continued         Washington.
                   Stan, Property Owner: We don't have a historic neighborhood identity any
                   more, so we can throw away the old lighting image and be more compatible
                   with the new uses and progress of the neighborhood.
                   Peter, Great Streets: Having a distinctive feel to the lighting in this area is
                   important. Lighting should effectively light spaces in the evening and
                   during the day shouldn't take on such prominence.
 Sustainability    Catherine, City of St. Louis: Sustainability here is more about
 Thoughts          connectivity. There are different elements in the district and not all of them
                   converge. There are ways to showcase and bump them up ­ solar, bio-
                   filtration etc? Let's call attention to these elements and create a ripple
                   effect that can be built up over time. Also, on plantings, consider putting in
                   native plantings etc.
                   Don, Framework Plan: Cardinal Ritter and Grand Center Arts Academy
                   are among a number of educational institutions in the community, ranging
                   from higher education to elementary school. The environmental program
                   could be tied to education in the area.
                   Catherine, City of St. Louis: This combination is incredibly compelling.
 More of What's    Mandi, University Plaza: We have four residents that live on the corner
 Missing           and that are blind. We would like buzzers on the lights to make crossing
                   better / safer.




                                                                                                 116
Grand & Grandel Subcommittees Presentation                                Grand Center
April 5, 2013 Discussion Summary                                    Great Streets Project
Overview
Stakeholders from the Grand and Grandel Subcommittees met with members of the Great
Streets (GS) team on Friday, April 5, 2013. Sixteen committee members, Grand Center
Inc. (GCI) representatives and project officials participated in the meeting, which was
held to accomplish the following objectives:
    Provide information on the project team's work to date;
    Acquaint attendees with the team's design recommendations, with a focus on their
    impacts on the Grand and Grandel corridors; and
    Solicit stakeholder feedback on the recommendations.
A list of meeting attendees is presented below.
Attendance
Committee Members, GCI Representatives & EWG Officials:
Ken Christian                  Stellar Management
Paul Hubbman                   EWG
Ken Kranzberg                  Grand Center Inc.
Don Stastny                    Stastny Architects
Rich Baker                     Fox Associates, LLC
Fred Bronstein                 St. Louis Symphony
Vince Schoemehl                Grand Center Inc.
Lynne Glickert                 Grand Center Arts Academy
Gary Drikow                    VA
Janese Henry                   Reisdent
Shay Schindler                 EWG
Mark Schulte                   JP
David Belsky                   Rodemyer-Christel Inc.
Jill Belsky                    Rodemyer-Christel Inc.
Debbie Pyzyk                   University Club
Boo McLoughlin                 Craft Alliance
Project Team Members:
Dan Jay                        Christner
Laurel Harrington              Christner
Peter Schaudt                  Hoerr Schaudt Landscape Architects
Michael Skowland               Hoerr Schaudt Landscape Architects
Carrie Falkenrath              CBB
Rebeccah Bennett               Vector Communications
Discussion Highlights
 Discussion Topic    Comments
  Street Seating     Boo McLoughlin: Will people be comfortable sitting with their
                     backs that close to traffic? There's something about your back being
                     close to traffic that may make people feel unsafe or uncomfortable.
                     Team Response: We need to study this more.



                                                                                            117
Discussion Topic   Comments
 Street Seating    Ken Kranzberg: The bench doesn't have a back to it. If you're
                   brave, you sit with your feet out to the middle of the street and if
                   you're not, you don't.
                   Vince Schoemehl: The natural impulse when I sit down on a bench
                   is to look at the traffic. We're setting this up so that you'll be 18 feet
                   away from the wall and looking at a wall.
                   Team Response: The other idea is that you'll be looking at people
                   walking by, sometimes.
                   Ken Kranzberg: In Palm Springs, there is not a single bench that
                   faces the traffic. The benches are facing the sidewalk because that's
                   where the stores and people are. As long as the benches don't have a
                   back to them, people can sit wherever and however they want to sit
                   and have a choice of facing the street or the store fronts.
 Signage           Vince Schoemehl: I mentioned this morning that the design looks
                   very clean, but we'll have to have no parking signs if we remove
                   parking from Grand. To keep these signs from cluttering things up,
                   we need to talk with the city and TAG about having them painted on
                   the street instead. This may, however, be an issue when there's
                   snow.
 Sidewalks         Janese Henry: On the corner, there will be a sidewalk café and this
                   will choke things up a bit. If the sidewalks are 15 feet and the city
                   requires 5 dedicated feet for its purposes, then this leaves 10 feet for
                   the sidewalk café tables and the benches etc. This feels a bit
                   congested and may require additional study. Also, curb-less
                   sidewalks scare me.
 Trees             Ken Kranzberg: Those aren't trees in front of the Symphony, right?
                   Team Response: They are not trees. They are lights.
 Parking           Debbie Pyzyk: I'm concerned about the University Club building
                   across from the Fox. There are lots of instances where residents need
                   to be picked up and dropped off, where deliveries need to be made,
                   and where emergency vehicles need access. This building loads on
                   Grand right now.
                   Team Response: One of the reasons for three lanes on Grand is for
                   emergency vehicle access and travel.
                Vince Schoemehl: The plan would be to replace your parking and
                add additional parking for the University Club in the new parking
                garages.
 Pullouts, Drop Vince Schoemehl: There need to be pullouts for valet and drop off
 Offs & Valet   for both the Fox and the symphony. We need to provide an entry and
                double lane drop off for the symphony.



                                                                                            118
Discussion Topic   Comments
 Pullouts, Drop Fred Bronstein: You'll definitely have to have a drop off, but be
 Offs & Valet   mindful of the institution's expansion plans. Things will change at
                some point.
                Rich Baker: For the Fox, our accessible door is on the Washington
                street side. However, there are some who like to drop off at the front.
                With curb-less sidewalks, how do you do this ­ with ballards?
                Team Response: You bite into the sidewalk area.
                ???: With regard to the symphony, can you do your drop off on
                Delmar?
                   Fred Bronstein: The problem is that that's where valet parking is.
                   Don Stastny: If the drop off is in front of the new building, then the
                   new building could be set back a bit and you could maintain the wide
                   sidewalks.
                   Rich Baker: Drop offs should not be right under the marquee,
                   because then you'll have buses hitting the marquee. You could go
                   south, but you've only got a little space and then an alley. All that
                   matters is that drop offs are not under the marquee. This is where the
                   mass quantities of people are. We can live with anything other than
                   this.
 Sam Shepard       Fred Bronstein: What happens on Sam Shepard?
 Drive             Team Response: The symphony's new addition and the new parking
                   garage will be along Sam Shepard. It becomes an interesting street
                   that facilitates getting to destinations. It needs to be pedestrian
                   oriented, but won't really have a distinct personality with lots of
                   independent activity.
                   Fred Bronstein: Sam Shepard is critical for garage access.
                   Ken Kranzberg: This will be a much more lively space as soon as
                   the 634 building is completed. There will be retail, commercial on
                   the first few floors and residents. And during circus time, Sam
                   Shepard will be a very busy and active place. The fact is that there is
                   potential going down Sam Shepard to Compton.
 Lighting          Vince Schoemehl: Fred, we talked about going east to Compton and
                   west to Vandeveneter with all of the lighting elements, at least along
                   Washington. This will help people feel safe in the neighborhood.
                   Fred Bronstein: If you want Delmar to be something that people use
                   too, then you need to go down Delmar to Compton.
                   Vince Schoemehl: We have no idea what the cost of all of this will
                   be yet. We've got to focus on at least one street that's a main access
                   for everybody and our current focus is Washington. Also, we've got
                   to address left turn lane movements on Grand.



                                                                                            119
Discussion Topic   Comments
 Left Turn         Team Comment: We need to do a complete left turn analysis of the
 Lanes             whole district.
 Washington        Debbie Pyzyk: You're not making Washington a one-way street,
                   right?
                   Team Response: You're right. We are narrowing it. We're
                   decreasing the width of the lanes, but not the number of lanes. The
                   street's traffic capacity is not affected.
 Behavior          Fred Bronstein: I understand about changing people's behavior.
 Change            The question is how do you make this happen. One of the primary
                   issues is the exit at Grand and 40, which brings you right to the spine.
                   Team Response: We're going to make it work. We've identified a
                   whole range of barriers that impede our vision and we are
                   systematically addressing them in our plan. We're trying to address
                   this issue as holistically as we can, but the answers will be a shopping
                   list. The venues and their communications will be a key part of the
                   solution.
                   You can compare this to when MODOT closed 64. They did an
                   extensive public information campaign and it worked. This,
                   combined with ensuring that the other components are in place, will
                   make things work.
                   Rich Baker: You are changing capacity at night. If you can
                   convince people that this is good for the neighborhood it will work.
                   You need a big PR campaign. It can't just be the individual venues
                   doing PR because it won't be massive enough.
 Parking           Boo McLoughlin: I love what you're doing to Olive, but you're
                   taking a whole parking lane to the north and I don't see any new
                   parking structures there. Parking on the north side of Olive is
                   needed.
                   Team Response: We intend to create a rhythm of bumpouts and
                   have three or four spaces for parking on both sides of the street. This
                   will soften the street, allow planting areas, and accommodate the
                   light poles. We'll still have metered parking on both sides, just less
                   of it.
 Traffic           Paul Hubbman: Concern should not just be about the volume of
 Behavior          vehicle traffic, but also the behavior of it. Slowing it down is
                   necessary for safety, making pedestrians the priority. South Grand
                   did a road diet and it slowed people down. It's actually been working
                   very well and traffic has slowed by about 10 mph. Noise pollution
                   and other things that impact the environment of the street have
                   improved. A lot of residual benefit can come from calming the
                   traffic down.



                                                                                          120
Discussion Topic   Comments
 Maintenance       Fred Bronstein: I think what you've presented looks great. In terms
                   of looking down the road at this, one of the things that people might
                   fear is maintenance. Without a plan for this, things will go bad really
                   quickly and the upkeep of things in this city is really tricky.
                   Team Response: The lighting strategies are going to lower
                   maintenance and demand. The question of active seasonal planting
                   beds is one that usually requires private funding. A lot of what will
                   make this place work will be very active, ongoing public and private
                   investment.
 Grandel ­         Vince Schoemehl: Talk about the cut-through to Delmar from
 Traffic           Grandel.
 Movement &        Lynne Glickert: The 300 cars that line up to drop off their kids have
 Parking           to turn left. How will they do this?
                   Vince Schoemehl: Well actually, I think we have an extra lane there
                   to have a two-way road. We're trying to solve for congestion
                   patterns. We'll get a two-lane road through there. This re-route is
                   about five years away. We're trying to figure out the best way to
                   pick up and drop off.
                   Team Response: Maybe you close that portion of Grandel off in the
                   mornings. Maybe you don't allow a left hand turn from Grand to
                   Grandel. We can also think about how to use your parking lot
                   differently. Really making this work will take lots of different
                   strategies.
                   Lynne Glickert: The bigger congestion is at the end of the day. We
                   also have kids starting to get drivers' licenses. At any given time the
                   school needs at least 15 to 20 spots for daily activity. And, what
                   about loading for the theater itself?
                   Vince Schoemehl: This road is right next to the theater, but most of
                   your loading is from the back, isn't it?
                   David Belsky: At a previous meeting, we talked about a corral for
                   school buses to drop kids off for performances. Generally, they line
                   up on both sides of Grandel, but this takes away space for our
                   business customers. School bus marshalling is important.
                   Team Response: Hopefully a site for this will be moved further
                   west.
                   Vince Schoemehl: Depending on what happens with the VA, then
                   you'll have no parking demand during the day on Delmar. You could
                   make it no parking except for buses. We'll know this outcome in 90
                   days. The VA's deadline for making a decision in June 30th.




                                                                                           121
Discussion Topic    Comments
 Grandel ­          ???: So with parking, you were planning to have it constrained up to
 Traffic            where the roundabout occurs?
 Movement &         Team Response: Yes.
 Parking
                    Lynne Glickert: The proposal is that the sidewalks are actually
                    smaller?
                    Team Response: We'll scrutinize the designs. Ten feet is a really
                    nice sidewalk for this type of street. And the trees won't have to
                    occupy that space, since they can be placed in the bumped out area.
                    ???: Earlier you mentioned that you would eliminate the bus stop by
                    Grand and Grandel.
                    Team Response: Yes.
                    Janese Henry: Be sure to move the bump-outs from in front of
                    people's houses. People want to park in front of where they live.
                    Lynne Glickert: Where would the kids' bus stop be?
                    Team Response: On Delmar.
 Plan               Mark Schulte: I'm interested in the phasing of all of this. What
   Implementation   comes first and how quickly can we build that beautiful part of Grand
                    Avenue up close to Windsor?
                    Team Response: In the next eight weeks, we're meeting with EWG
                    and GCI and turning this into an implementation plan that identifies
                    priorities and funding. We want to build North Grand too.
                    Mark Schulte: As an example, there may be another redevelopment
                    north of Peterson and it would be nice if we could connect. This
                    would be a community center for the Eritrean community, so
                    conceivably we could make a contribution of that whole block of
                    Grand avenue. It could be used for early implementation of some of
                    the things that we are all working on here.
 Paving On          Vince Schoemehl: Did we talk about the paving solution on
 Grandel            Grandel?
                    Team Response: Yes. It becomes a green demonstration street and
                    MSD likes this.
 Stormwater         Janese Henry: An enormous amount of water runs down that hill
 Management         when it rains. With a heavy rain, a 6 to 10 foot wide downhill stream
                    that goes about 10 inches deep runs in front of my house. I take off
                    my socks and shoes off to get into my car.




                                                                                           122
Olive Subcommittee                                                         Grand Center
April 4, 2013 Discussion Summary                                     Great Streets Project

Overview
Stakeholders from the Grand Center District and surrounding environs met with members
of the Great Streets (GS) team on Thursday, April 4, 2013. Seventeen community
stakeholders, Grand Center Inc. (GCI) representatives and project officials participated in
the meeting, which was held to accomplish the following objectives:
    Provide information on the project team's work to date;
    Acquaint attendees with the team's design recommendations; and
    Solicit stakeholder feedback on the recommendations.

A list of meeting attendees is presented below.

Attendance
Community Stakeholders, GCI Representatives & EWG Officials:
Ken Christian                   Stellar Management
Don Stastny                     Stastny Architects
Paul DeMerath                   Scottish Rite
Ken Kranzberg                   Grand Center Inc.
Matt Foggy                      Resident
Tim Eby                         St. Louis Public Radio
Richard Baker                   Fox Theatre
Vince Schoemehl                 Grand Center Inc.
Heather Woofter

Project Team Members:
Paul Hubbman                    East West Gateway
Shay Schindler                  East West Gateway
Dan Jay                         Christner
Laurel Harrington               Christner
Peter Schaudt Schaudt           Hoerr Schaudt Landscape Architects
Michael Skowland                Hoerr Schaudt Landscape Architects
Sung Ho Kim                     HOK
Rachel Powers                   Vector Communications

Discussion Highlights

 Discussion Topic       Comments
  Overall Plan            ·   Don Stastny: Olive is one of the most defined streets already
  Impressions                 with many of the buildings already in operation.

                          ·   Ken Kranzberg: Olive can be a significant street for retail
                              closest to the university to attract students.




                                                                                              123
             ·   Peter Schaudt: I like the design implications that make it feel
                 varied.

             ·   Peter Schaudt: If Spring far west and Theresa far east is
                 developed, it makes sense to develop Theresa.

             ·   Ken Kranzberg: Olive buildings are 24 hour types of
                 buildings that are not dead after 5 pm ­ there is constant stuff
                 going on there to consider. Don't write off Olive it has lots of
                 potential.

             ·   Don Stastny: Don't kick the can down the road for Olive
                 there needs to be a carefully planned design developed.
 Sidewalks   ·   Don Stastny: There is a 10 ft set back around the parking lot
                 (that SLU owns next to Centene Building) and all that would
                 need to be done is paving it ­ we can do this instead of
                 moving the curb.

             ·   Paul DeMerath: It's more interesting with the bump outs in
                 the sidewalks on both sides ­ gives the sense of wider
                 sidewalks.

             ·   Dan Jay: Olive to the north is mostly people walking from
                 one place to another and not people stopping and standing ­
                 widening this street is low on the priority list ­ retail is not
                 very likely.

             ·   Vince Schoemehl: With all of the different changes coming
                 there could be a lot changing on this street that makes it more
                 retail friendly.

             ·   Ken Kranzberg: Lots of development planned and
                 opportunities to make Olive a totally new type of street.

             ·   Matt Foggy: Why are sidewalks not even on both sides? The
                 current sidewalks are very narrow on the south side of the
                 street ­ need to make the sidewalks more pedestrian friendly.

             ·   Ken Kranzberg: It's not the tree trunk but the limbs that
                 become the problem on the sidewalks. We need to plant
                 talker/larger trees with higher limbs.
 Lighting    ·   Paul DeMerath: I like the rendering of Olive better at night
                 with the cables disappearing and looks like you are under a
                 starry sky. I'm not a fan of cables overhead but at 35 feet up it
                 won't be noticeable.




                                                                                    124
             ·   Richard Baker: I like lights that put arrows on the street
                 because people will follow them and get out of traffic sooner.

             ·   Peter Schaudt: The great thing between tall and small
                 armatures is that the poles will already be there to add the
                 cable lighting later if needed ­ the poles are 35 feet.

             ·   Richard Baker: We can do one street and see if we like it
                 and adjust.

             ·   Ken Kranzberg: Do an alley as a pilot for the cable lighting.

             ·   Ken Christian: The vista on the LED screen can be fantastic
                 and there could be retail on the side of the garage if that is
                 ever a vast commons that goes all the way through.

             ·   Ken Kranzberg: Why cables and not lasers?

             ·   Richard Baker: Cable system will light the street and lasers
                 don't.

             ·   Vince Schoemehl: This cable system is great for ambiance,
                 but it is not required to meet light requirements. In 1991 we
                 did a laser roof project and the problem was the vibration of
                 mirrors due to the trucks on the street.

             ·   Matt Foggy: How does the cable system look during the day?
                 What's the diameter of the cables or is it a lot less noticeable?

             ·   Vince Schoemehl: One group not represented on the TAG
                 was the fire department and they are going to want to be sure
                 they can get a hook and latter through the cables.

             ·   Richard Baker: The fire department is going to just destroy
                 your lighting because they don't care.

             ·   Paul DeMerath: Continental has fire trucks at least once a
                 week called to their building.
 Materials   ·   Peter Schaudt: I like the porous paver idea because it makes
                 it a feel like a wider street.

             ·   Richard Baker: We like concrete instead of Asphalt because
                 on a hot day the trucks make divets in the asphalt roads, then
                 it becomes a bumpy street. Versus concrete is more sturdy
                 and can be stamped, etc.
 Biking      ·   Peter Schaudt: Spring street park could be a great trailhead



                                                                                  125
                   for bike parking / maintenance, a kiosk, etc. Make it a
                   regional connection for people who have never been here
                   before.

               ·   Heather Woofter: Are we anticipating designated bike lanes
                   from bike path (art walk) down Olive, Washington, etc? How
                   do families get down to the activity in Grand Center if they
                   are on bike with kids?

               ·   Heather Woofter: Will there be infrastructure to park your
                   bike?
 Streetcar     ·   Ken Kranzberg: I think the street car line should go down
                   olive at least to Vandeventer instead of Lindell.

               ·   Peter Schaudt: How does the fire department deal with the
                   overhead lines from the streetcar?

               ·   Vince Schoemehl: Why not have the street car go up Lindell
                   to Vandeventer right turn then right turn on Olive and come
                   down back to Lindell ­ or vice versa ­ up olive left turn at
                   Vandeventer, left turn at Lindell and drop off in front of SLU
                   dorms?

               ·   Ken Kranzberg: I think the street car line should go down
                   olive at least to Vandeventer instead of Lindell
 VA Hospital   ·   Paul DeMerath: VA transfers patients from hospital to
                   clinics on Olive they have to transport by ambulance a couple
                   times a day.

               ·   Vince Schoemehl: Eventually all of their things will be in the
                   hospital and not separate.
 Future        ·   Matt Foggy: When market is right we are looking to build a
 Development       tower type residential development with ground level parking
                   about 118 units.

               ·   Paul Hubbman: Why not run locust through SLU parking lot
                   and connect to Olive?

               ·   Ken Kranzberg: Getting that parking lot design option
                   through SLU will be a problem.

               ·   Ken Christian: There is a view easement behind Scottish
                   Rite.

               ·   Richard Baker: How to fix traffic flow issues in front of
                   Hotel Ignacio?



                                                                                    126
             ·   Ken Kranzberg: Centene Center would love to have
                 something on the first floor other than office space ­ right
                 now it doesn't make sense.

             ·   Ken Kranzberg: Continental Building has retail space in the
                 front.
 Amenities   ·   Tim Eby: Around where the media plaza is, we want to have
                 food trucks and other things to make it more vibrant.

             ·   Paul DeMerath: Where is the grocery store?

             ·   Dan Jay: The area needs to have a high pedestrian population
                 to support a grocery store without a large parking lot. Until
                 we get the density we won't get a large enough grocery store.

             ·   Ken Christian: We need a smaller footprint regional draw
                 grocer like a Trader Joes, not Schnucks.
 Alleys      ·   Matt Foggy: At minimum alleys should be lit. Need to look
                 at alleyway near Kranzberg and Fox.

             ·   Richard Baker: This plan doesn't address alleys ­ those are
                 some of the scariest places in our district.

             ·   Dan Jay: To address alleys it requires lots of looking into
                 trucks, wires and sides of buildings. It just isn't apart of our
                 scope for this, even though we would love to look into them.

             ·   Vince Schoemehl: Axiomi will be looking at some alleys for
                 the ArtWalk.

             ·   Peter Schaudt: Like the alley project in Chicago.
             ·   Ken Kranzberg: Why not open the alley behind the Scottish
                 Rite to let cars out to Spring between Olive and Lindell?
 Parking     ·   Paul DeMerath: I like the alternative street treatment in the
                 parking zone.

             ·   Heather Woofter: The grade change at the Scottish Rite
                 Parking garage is a challenge .

             ·   Tim Eby: Need to include retail handicap parking on the side
                 in front of Jack's building.

             ·   Vince Schoemehl: We have no rights to parking at Olive and
                 Grand ­ Craft Alliance and Centene Center.




                                                                                    127
            ·   Vince Schoemehl: At Centene Center parking meters have
                gone from 4 hrs to 2 hrs ­ trying to get them back.
 Planters
            ·   Peter Schaudt: I like the cluster idea of trees because it could
                do something nice to the mid-block crossing.




                                                                               128
Spring Subcommittee                                                       Grand Center
April 5, 2013 Discussion Summary                                    Great Streets Project

Overview
Stakeholders from the Grand Center District and surrounding environs met with members
of the Great Streets (GS) team on Friday, April 5, 2013. More than 20 community
stakeholders, Grand Center Inc. (GCI) representatives and project officials participated in
the meeting, which was held to accomplish the following objectives:
    Provide information on the project team's work to date;
    Acquaint attendees with the team's design recommendations; and
    Solicit stakeholder feedback on the recommendations.

A list of meeting attendees is presented below.

Attendance
Community Stakeholders, GCI Representatives & EWG Officials:
Emily Pulitzer                 Pulitzer Foundation
Ken Christian                  Stellar Management
Don Stastny                    Stastny Architects
Paul DeMerath                  Scottish Rite
Ken Kranzberg                  Grand Center Inc.
Stan Jones                     Resident
Matt Foggy                     Resident
Janese Henry                   Resident
Chris Caskey-Dougherty         Coronado
Amy Gill                       Coronado
Amrit Gill                     Coronado
Vince Schoemehl                Grand Center Inc.
Rico Smith                     Restoration St. Louis
Catty Dam Zhang
Dave Gifford

Project Team Members:
Shay Schindler                 East West Gateway
Mikey Nowcas                   SWT Design
Hunter Beckham                 SWT Design
Dan Jay                        Christner
Laurel Harrington              Christner
Peter Schaudt                  Hoerr Schaudt Landscape Architects
Michael Skowland               Hoerr Schaudt Landscape Architects
Meredith McKinley              Via
Rachel Powers                  Vector Communications




                                                                                              129
Discussion Highlights

 Discussion Topic       Comments
     Overall Plan       ·   Amy Gill: I think it's a beautiful plan and we want to be
     Impressions            part of the beautiful plan.

                        ·   Amy Gill: I'm excited and I want GC to do well, Coronado
                            is a heavy tax component of the district and we've never
                            been actually considered a part of the district even though
                            we pay for it. We want to make sure we are included in
                            directional signage and overall considered in district.

                        ·   Amy Gill: Your line ends right at the tip of my building and
                            it doesn't include Moolah and it should be included in
                            Grand Center.

                        ·   Ken Kranzberg: We really need to develop Olive West up
                            to Vandeventer. We need to get the Wolfner Library done
                            and other pending important projects and we could make
                            Olive west a really important part of the district.
     Plan               ·   Chris Caskey-Dougherty: Can we talk about the phases,
     Execution              how is this rolling out?
     Sidewalks          ·   Matt Foggy: The existing sidewalks in the framework plan
                            are not 8 ft they are 5 ft in front of the Coronado ­ with the
                            parking meters, they are really narrow.

                        ·   Ken Kranzberg: We really need to widen the sidewalks on
                            spring because they are important to people.

                        ·   Amy Gill: How are you getting the extra land?

                        ·   Amy Gill: There's no way 55 feet.

                        ·   Laurel Harrington: I wonder if the stonewall is in the right
                            of way or is it behind the property line like it should be?

                        ·   Janese Henry: Another change I've seen is with the Grand
                            Center Arts Academy (GCAA) is a class with SLU and they
                            bring classrooms full of students down my sidewalk and
                            they are very loud ­ yesterday I had 200 students come
                            down. We need to think about that as we are making it more
                            pedestrian friendly.

                        ·   Dave Gifford: There is a narrow sidewalk problem just east
                            of Washington ­ it's not what we'd call walkable.



                                                                                             130
 Parking   ·   Amy Gill: When you start doing this, we have a restaurant
               that depends on the short term parking on that side and if
               you don't have enough space and take it all out, then my
               restaurant goes out of business.

           ·   Amrit Gill: If we just build parking structures and say
               people should park there and walk, then they don't we can't
               make them.

           ·   Vince Schoemehl: I think you will need to get rid of the
               planter put the parking back on the other side.

           ·   Amy Gill: They really need to measure the distance for
               parking on Spring.

           ·   Janese Henry: If a new restaurant is an Italian restaurant
               that means a longer meal and longer parking needed.

           ·   Chris Caskey-Dougherty: Our customers don't really go
               north of Westminister for parking to go to the Coronado.

           ·   Amy Gill: Once SLU students start going to campus for the
               whole day, they pick a garage and pay ­ instead of using
               meters. Graduate students will use the meters for their early
               morning classes, but by lunchtime it is pretty empty.

           ·   Amy Gill: Coronado has all parking on Spring which keeps
               them alive. Westminister is all permit parking now with the
               SLU

           ·   Amy Gill: The good thing would be to have Vince
               Schoemehl convince Father Biondi to make that area (near
               Coronado) neighborhood parking. Our residents park in
               their own garage, but their guests park in meter spots. We
               have 800 spots in our garage, but our customers won't use
               those. It's up to the restaurant to purchase the parking in the
               garage

           ·   Chris Caskey-Dougherty: Are we thinking about kiosk
               parking versus meters? We would like that better.

           ·   Janese Henry: It would be really wonderful if we had
               neighborhood permit parking.
 Traffic   ·   Amy Gill: I think this is all beautiful, but is it really
               practical. As a patron of the FOX, when people leave they
               go to Spring and if we make it smaller, how do we get



                                                                                 131
                people out. We don't want to spend an hour plus in traffic
                leaving the FOX.

            ·   Stan Jones: In front of my sitting room at 5 pm I see lots of
                traffic. If there was a bump out this could help traffic.

            ·   Amy Gill: How about a right turn only system so no one
                ever goes left.

            ·   Ken Kranzberg: If it was one way then it could help.

            ·   Stan Jones: Why not have the lighting signals coordinated
                to let things out?

            ·   Ken Kranzberg: The traffic person talked about making the
                whole thing one way at a certain hour (i.e. 10 ­ 12 at night).
                The goal is to have people stay late to have a cup of coffee
                or ice cream to just be in Grand Center.

            ·   Dave Gifford: For Cardinal Ritter, have you dug into about
                drop off lanes, etc.?

            ·   Janese Henry: It is incredibly dangerous in front of
                Cardinal Ritter, they double park on both sides of the street
                and they do U-turns. You literally have to drive down the
                middle of the road because they are double parked a half
                hour before school lets out and people are making
                simultaneous U-turns in the middle of the street. The parents
                even come up 50 feet past my house taking all parking and
                the kids are running across the street. It's a disaster waiting
                to happen. Making that a bottleneck into that area and them
                combining that with a round-a-bout for the GCAA school is
                not going to work. They used to have students parking in
                front of my house, but I complained.

            ·   Stan Jones: Twice a day the area is jammed packed.
 Lighting   ·   Dan Jay: Why not consider the cable lighting at McPherson
                to continue the cohesiveness of the district all the way out.

            ·   Amy Gill: Ameren came to us six months ago and they are
                taking down all the poles in our area and they put in new
                transformers ­ Power On project.
 Alleys     ·   Dave Gifford: What about the alleys? One would think the
                biggest concern in the alley's is lighting and safety. You're
                supposed to be addressing architecturally what the plan is
                for this neighborhood and this isn't addressed in this plan ­



                                                                                132
                    that's a problem.

                ·   Stan Jones: When will alley's be able to be addressed?

                ·   Janese Henry: My alley is one of the main exits out of the
                    district. They were initially built as a service road and
                    emergency egress. If anything happens then emergency
                    responders can't come in because everyone is pushing out.
 Street         ·   Dave Gifford: As you make it a walkable neighborhood, we
 Furniture          older people occasionally need a place to sit down. Is there
                    anywhere along Spring to sit down for a moment?

                ·   Amy Gill: Honestly with the more street furniture you have,
                    the more street people you have. I would prefer not having it
                    down near me. I recently had someone approach me about
                    putting a homeless shelter on Westminister.
 Signage        ·   Dave Gifford: For someone who comes down just every
                    once in a while and you put too much decorative signage,
                    it's like a blank wall. They are looking for information.

                ·   Ken Kranzberg: We need signage to do two things, direct
                    people in and out and around Grand Center if they want to
                    explore a little bit.

                ·   Amy Gill: One thing you could do now, I think there should
                    be a signage design for the neighborhood to tell people how
                    to get in and out of grand.
 Midblock cut   ·   Vince Schoemehl: What uses go on at Grandel that
 in / Parking       interlink with uses at Washington that we have to have the
 structure          midblock connection there? If the whole purple thing on
                    Washington is a garage, you could exit out of back of
                    garage to get to all those theatres. We want people to go to
                    the symphony to park in garage at 634. I understand the land
                    use for artwalk at sluma and Scottish Rite and Scottish rite
                    parking garage ­ that to me makes sense. Up there, we have
                    a school, small theatre and real estate company ­ why mid
                    block crossing there?

                ·   Dave Gifford: What about the VA hospital employees and
                    visitors to access the district?

                ·   Amy Gill: The problem is parking garage development ­
                    it's not an easy thing to pay for a parking garage ­ what they
                    are setting up for you is to set up parking with covered
                    parking for VA people who will help pay for it in the day
                    time.



                                                                                 133
            ·   Vince Schoemehl: The VA is committed to building their
                own parking.

            ·   Ken Kranzberg: If the architects can figure out if the
                artwalk can go all the way through that would be great. But
                we can't worry about everything and if we can't do it, we
                just can't. Hospitals never have enough parking and some
                people may end up using your parking during the day.

            ·   Janese Henry: The midblock cut in is about making it more
                walkable and useable.

            ·   Paul DeMerath: It's about what's coming not necessarily
                what's there now.

            ·   Stan Jones: People like shortcuts. If you can find a safe
                shortcut, people will do it and it makes a place user friendly.

            ·   Chris Caskey-Dougherty: If it will be retail on the front
                side of that garage, then people from the VA want to go to
                retail. Without the cutaway, then they would have to go all
                around to access that if we don't put a midblock crossing in
                there.
 Planters   ·   Chris Caskey-Dougherty: I can't see how you can have
                that size of planting with the buffer space needed for the
                meters.

            ·   Dave Gifford: While planters look good, if we don't have
                enough incremental cut across areas then pedestrians may
                change their behaviors. Someone needs to follow people's
                natural/current walking paths as to not hinder their
                movement.

            ·   Dave Gifford: With the planting buffer, is that something a
                pedestrian could cut across?




                                                                               134
Stakeholder Design Presentation                                           Grand Center
April 4, 2013 Discussion Summary                                    Great Streets Project

Overview
Stakeholders from the Grand Center District and surrounding environs met with members
of the Great Streets (GS) team on Thursday, April 4, 2013. More than 50 community
stakeholders, Grand Center Inc. (GCI) representatives and project officials participated in
the meeting, which was held to accomplish the following objectives:
    Provide information on the project team's work to date;
    Acquaint attendees with the team's design recommendations; and
    Solicit stakeholder feedback on the recommendations.

A list of meeting attendees is presented below.

Attendance
Community Stakeholders, GCI Representatives & EWG Officials:
Katy Fischer                   Toky
Ken Christian                  Stellar Management
Shay Schindler                 EWG
Peter Bunce                    Grand Center Inc.
Gary Clark                     American Automotive
Don Stastny                    Stastny Architects
Rich Baker                     Fox Associates, LLC
Paul DeMerath                  Scottish Rite
Richard Nuelle                 Nuelle's Automotive
Kay Nuelle                     Nuelle's Automotive
Mat Foggy                      Resident
Ken Kranzberg                  Grand Center Inc.
Todd Antoine                   Great Rivers Greenway
Chasey Jackson                 VA
Gary Drikow                    VA
Paul Reuter                    Sheldon
Stan Jones                     Resident
Mark Schulte                   Justine Peterson
Will Zorn                      Grand Center Inc.
Marcia Quint                   Grand Center Inc.
Marilyn Sheperd                Grand Center Inc.
Travis Howser                  Grand Center Inc.
Judy Votino                    Grand Center Inc.
Mikey Naucas                   SWT Design
Kristina Van Dyke              Pulitzer
Hunter Beckham                 SWT Design
Paul Hubbman                   EWG
Tom Kurtz                      Third Baptist Church
Steve Smith                    The Lawrence Group
Vince Schoemehl                Grand Center Inc.
Warren Hoffman                 Third Baptist
Lynn Glickert                  Grand Center Arts Academy



                                                                                              135
Gene Dobbs Bradford             Jazz St. Louis
Rose Terranova                  Grand Center Inc.
Sherre Waggoner                 Grand Center Inc.
David Belsky                    Rodemyer Christel Inc.
Boo McLaughlin                  Craft Alliance
Wendy Timm                      Enhanced Value Strategies
Peter Pierotti                  SLU
Becky James-Hatter              Big Brothers Big Sisters
Donald Suggs                    St. Louis American
Lewis Levey                     Enhanced Value Strategies
Tim Eby                         St. Louis Public Radio
Anna Kuwabara                   St. Louis Symphony
Richard Ward                    Ward Development Counsel
Sung Ho Kim
Heather Woofler
Dave Gifford

Project Team Members:
Dan Jay                         Christner
Laurel Harrington               Christner
Peter Schaudt                   Hoerr Schaudt Landscape Architects
Michael Skowland                Hoerr Schaudt Landscape Architects
Todd Williams                   M3
Carrie Falkenrath               CBB
Meredith McKinley               Via
Randy Burkett                   Randy Burkett Lighting Design
Rebeccah Bennett                Vector Communications

Discussion Highlights

 Discussion Topic     Comments
  Lighting            Question: Are the lights staggered on the opposite sides of the
                      street?
                      Response: Yes
  Plants              Question: Will the plants in the planters be watered?
                      Response: Yes
  Lighting            Question: How does all of this new lighting mesh with the building
                      lighting that already exists?
                      Response: The flood lighting on the boulevard would only be used to
                      enhance buildings where it is needed. Also, by using the new low
                      bright light fixtures, we'll be able to see better the existing lighting,
                      on buildings. This means that there will be a heightened awareness
                      of building lighting.
  Stop Lights         Comment: Stop light length time is a real problem, especially on
                      Vandeventer, portions of Grand and Olive.
                      Response: On Vandeventer, the city is currently in the process of



                                                                                              136
                    trying to fix this issue. Contact Todd Waeltermann at the city about
                    the lights that present the greatest problems. He will help. The city
                    doesn't want public complaints and people unnecessarily held up.

Discussion Topic    Comments
 Alleys             Comment: The alleys can be exciting places, but they are also
                    places that people are afraid of. They are very prominent places in
                    Grand Center and fixing them up will go a long way to improving
                    Grand Center's appeal and making people feel safer.
 Plan               Question: What are your thoughts about the plan's costs and
   Implementation   scheduling?
                    Response: Once we refine our designs, we will be able to get good
                    cost estimates. This requires some additional work and meetings. We
                    will have to present costs for the plan's different phases, breaking the
                    estimates down so that they are not unwieldy. This is the work that
                    the core group will be doing next.
 Sustainability     Question: Are we looking at green options for lighting, like solar?
                    Response: We're looking at LED for reducing energy usage. Solar
                    gets tricky because shadows from the buildings make it less effective.
                    If we use LED lights, they are inherently dimmable and switchable.
                    This means that you can cut back output at different times of day and
                    thus curtail energy usage when its not needed.
                    Question: LED lights require how much energy?
                    Response: The advantage of LEDs is not that they are inherently
                    more efficient, but they are so "directable" and controllable that they
                    can double efficiency. There is an energy savings as a system of
                    anywhere from 20 % to 60%. These lights are only serviced
                    routinely a third as much as a conventional lighting sources.
 Lighting &         Question: How do you avoid conflicts between street trees and the
 Trees              lighting grid?
                    Response: It's all about maintenance. The conflict with the tree line
                    is manageable. The lighting grid is 35 feet high.
 Lighting           Question: Have the overhead lighting grid been installed in other
                    places?
                    Response: Not so much in the U.S. But, the grids have been
                    installed in Europe.
 Lighting           Comment: If we're going to get people to go to Compton and
                    Vandeventer, we're going to have to extend the lighting structure at
                    least to Washington Ave. So as we put this together, we're going to
                    have to figure out how we stretch this at least one block on the west
                    end and three blocks on the east end. If we just did it along
                    Washington and got people to Compton, this would be very helpful



                                                                                              137
in making people comfortable.
Response: Our document presents a set of design guidelines that can
be expanded or implemented as broadly as needed.




                                                                  138
Theresa Subcommittee Presentation                                         Grand Center
April 4, 2013 Discussion Summary                                    Great Streets Project

Overview
Stakeholders from the Theresa Subcommittee met with members of the Great Streets
(GS) team on Thursday, April 4, 2013. Twelve committee members, Grand Center Inc.
(GCI) representatives and project officials participated in the meeting, which was held to
accomplish the following objectives:
    Provide information on the project team's work to date;
    Acquaint attendees with the team's design recommendations, with a focus on their
    impacts on the Theresa corridor; and
    Solicit stakeholder feedback on the recommendations.

A list of meeting attendees is presented below.

Attendance
Committee Members, GCI Representatives & EWG Officials:
Ken Christian                  Stellar Management
Paul Hubbman                   EWG
Peter Bunce                    Grand Center Inc.
Ken Kranzberg                  Grand Center Inc.
Don Stastny                    Stastny Architects
Rich Baker                     Fox Associates, LLC
Tom Kurtz                      Third Baptist Church
Vince Schoemehl                Grand Center Inc.
Rich Nuelle                    Nuelle's Automotive
Kay Nuelle                     Nuelle's Automotive
Steve Smith                    The Lawrence Group
Shay Schindler                 EWG

Project Team Members:
Dan Jay                        Christner
Laurel Harrington              Christner
Peter Schaudt                  Hoerr Schaudt Landscape Architects
Michael Skowland               Hoerr Schaudt Landscape Architects
Carrie Falkenrath              CBB
Rebeccah Bennett               Vector Communications
Discussion Highlights
 Discussion Topic    Comments
  Street             Peter Bunce: Does Theresa run through campus?
                     Response: No it does not. It dead ends.
  General            Peter Bunce: Do you drive over the gray shaded area?
                     Response: Yes, the part that's in the street. The shaded area is
                     actually up on the pedestrian sidewalk level.



                                                                                             139
Discussion Topic   Comments
 Street            Peter Bunce: Conceptually, I thought that we reached an agreement
 Character &       that Theresa was an opportunity for a quieter street with lots of retail.
 Sidewalks         Wider sidewalks would add to this and restaurant owners would
                   probably like this. One of the highly approved photos you showed
                   was the outdoor dining scene. Let me tell you, Grand Avenue is not
                   an ideal place for outdoor dining, but the side streets, like Theresa
                   are. Add 10 feet to the right of way for sidewalks.
                   Vince Schoemehl: In St. Louis, we'd be better off if we got the 10
                   feet dedicated to the city as a public right of way. You could use a
                   permanent easement and create a donate situation. This is an
                   opportunity that should not be overlooked. You get the double allay
                   of trees as well as enough sidewalk to do something other than just
                   walk.
                   Peter Bunce: For Theresa, the scale and feel of the Central West
                   End would be so appealing.
                   Don Stastny: With stoplights on Lindell, in a way Theresa becomes
                   a little like our Artwalk on the west side. It gets people to come into
                   the center and then penetrate deeper into the district.
                   Peter Bunce:. When all of this gets built out, it will be very built out.
                   Right now there's not a lot of green space in the district. Here, on
                   Theresa, we want to look for these kind of opportunities.
                   Team Response: We think of Theresa as kind of like a "Maryland /
                   Euclid" type of setting.
 Lighting          Peter Bunce: Could the grid overhead lights go in a north / south
                   direction on Theresa?
                   Team Response: This is certainly possible.
                   Peter Bunce: Theresa is sort of an intimate area and it adds another
                   element of containment when you get to this street.
                   Don Stastny: We should also look at overhead lights at the east end
                   of Olive.
 A Threshold       Peter Schaudt: Theresa is really the threshold to SLU. It could be
 To SLU            even more prominent with a signalized crossing, especially given the
                   growing activity on Locust.
 Critical          Steve Smith: The key things on Theresa are the cut-through and the
 Design            park on the other end. You've got four pocket parks at each of the
 Elements          intersections that enhance the opportunity for retail, not just outdoor
                   dining. I love the double allay of trees, but the house needs to go
                   away. What's nice is that as you walk down Theresa you have parks,
                   which make the length of the street manageable. The ground floor
                   use on Theresa can be retail. There can also be walkups with doors
                   on the street.



                                                                                           140
Discussion Topic   Comments
 Pedestrian        Tom Kurtz: Tom: Any consideration putting a signal at Theresa and
 Crossing /        Washington? There's limited sight for both cars and pedestrians.
 Movement          Team Response: We haven't thought about this. There might be
                   signals placed at Lindell and Washington.
                   Peter Bunce: Tom is right. You really have to be careful crossing at
                   Theresa and Washington.
                   Paul Hubbman: You may want to implement traffic calming
                   measures instead of signalizing at the intersection.
                   Ken Kranzberg: On your map, if that's the parking garage, the
                   heavy use will be for the Fox. That's where the people will be
                   crossing. They're not crossing down at Theresa right now.
                   Peter Bunce: And this is where it's dangerous because you have the
                   little dog leg there. The street tends to widen out.
                   Team Response: We've narrowed the street there.
                   Peter Bunce: You need an entrance to the garage on Washington.
                   Ken Kranzberg: Put a pedestrian crosswalk , a mid block crossing,
                   at Washington, half way between Grand and Theresa. This would
                   address the issue of crossing Washington.
                   Team Response: The TAG wants drop offs close to the entrances of
                   the major entertainment venues.
                   Ken Christian: The Sam Shepard side of the garage has to be
                   pedestrian accessible as well. This is parking for the people who live
                   in the building as well as for the symphony.
                   Rich Baker: What about a walkway to get over Washington?
                   Ken Kranzberg: We like the idea of people walking on the street.
                   Rich Baker: But if you've got the people in the air, you don't risk
                   people getting hit.
                   Team Response: If this was a coordinated development, it could
                   happen, but it's not and the walkway would cut down the view.
                   Ken Kranzberg: Walkways are ugly.
                   Vince Schoemehl: It will kill the retail on the street.
 Sam Shepard       Vince Schoemehl: In the distant future, the symphony is building a
 Drive             new reception area on Grand and Sam Shepard. The repertory
                   theater has talked about putting an audience shell / auditorium (750
                   seat) behind the building and co-using the symphony's new reception
                   area. This creates questions about what happens on the other side of
                   the street and affects how active Sam Shephard would be.



                                                                                         141
Discussion Topic   Comments
 Sam Shepard       Ken Kranzberg: Sam Shepard is going to be busier, but most of us
 Drive             won't be alive when the new developments Vince is talking about
                   take place. However, if we're going to do anything to improve Sam
                   Shepard, now is the time to do it.
 Theresa Street    Peter Bunce: As narrow as Theresa is, the character will be
 Character         determined more by the shops and retail than by the actual design of
                   the street itself.
 Sidebar           Vince Schoemehl: What is the rationale for losing the parking on
 Discussion of     the north side of Olive?
 Olive             Ken Kranzberg: The rationale was to widen the sidewalk. Having
                   a wider sidewalk in front of the Continental and KETC will make a
                   difference.
                   Vince Schoemehl: I'm just pointing out that if we want retail in the
                   garage given the grade and step, adding an extra 5 to 8 feet on that
                   side of the sidewalk makes this a more practical outcome. I think this
                   is a long shot anyway, so I'm not advocating one position or another.
 Sidewalks &       Rich Baker: Even on Theresa, we talked about only having super
 Parking           wide sidewalks on one side. And maybe it's enough to have the
                   double row of trees only on one side.
                   Ken Kranzberg: You just can't take away all the street parking,
                   particularly when you get to a street like Theresa where the parking
                   garages would be fairly far away.
                   Peter Bunce: Look at Euclid, there's parking on both sides of the
                   street. When people can't find street parking they go into the garage
                   and pay five bucks. This doesn't deter them from going to Euclid.
                   Vince Schoemehl: The key to Theresa is really dealing with that
                   extra 10 feet of right of way (ROW) between Olive and Washington.
                   Acquisition of the ROW between Washington and Sam Shepard
                   depends on whether we can get the house. We should widen the street
                   as much as we can because a wider sidewalk and better streetscape
                   would make it easier to rent facilities.
                   Don Stastny: There's no piece of property that would be
                   compromised geometrically by giving 10 feet.
                   Ken Kranzberg: And, worst case scenario, you widen Theresa from
                   Olive to Washington and then have it narrow down again.
 Street            Don Stastny: We've been talking about retail along these streets.
 Character         Retail isn't the point. The point is getting activity along these streets.
                   There is currently no small incubator space in Grand Center. It
                   would be ideal to identify spaces that could be used for business and
                   artist incubators.



                                                                                            142
Discussion Topic   Comments
 Street            Don Stastny: For instance, under the parking garage on Olive
 Character         again, at the Scottish Rite, you could use the first layer as an artist
                   incubator that wouldn't necessarily have to have access to the street.
                   This would provide an opportunity for exciting things to happen.
                   Another way to think about this is also to think about temporary
                   uses along the wider sidewalks like food carts that could then spawn
                   more restaurants in the area. And, this would not require a big
                   investment to make this happen.
 Parking           Peter Bunce: Strategically, parking garages are probably the first
 Garages           things you've got to build.
                   Team Response: You've got to do the garages one at a time.
                   Vince Schoemehl: We're trying to do two garages at a time, the
                   Fox and CBC lot. And then, we'll take the parking for the
                   symphony that is out of play up north to the VA. The Fox garage
                   will be done in two phases. Currently, we have 2,800 parking
                   spaces in lots and 740 spaces on the streets. A parking study is
                   underway that's being led/supported by Steve Smith. The first Fox
                   garage is being done this summer.
                   Peter Bunce: What happens to the economics of parking down
                   here when it's all structured parking?
                   Rich Baker: That's a good concern. There's no doubt that the
                   expense will go up when you create parking structures.
                   Peter Bunce: It seems to me that somehow the parking's got to not
                   be prohibitive.
                Ken Kranzberg: If current parking will take care of building your
                garages, then all your retail parking will be gravy.
 Implementation Vince Schoemehl: We need to go back to father on the Theresa cut
                through.
                   Ken Kranzberg: Father is willing to listen, but he wants to see
                   what it looks like. We need to strategize and then show him
                   something. What happens to the statue? Move it. You've got to get
                   Father to buy into the plans for the overlay district
                   Peter Bunce: When you finalize this, what's the final product?
                   Team Response: It's a vision / book with details and plans and
                   budgets.
                   Peter Bunce: Is there a conceptual narrative?
                   Team Response: Yes. There is an action plan component as well so
                   that pieces can be submitted for funding.




                                                                                         143
Washington Ave. / ArtWalk Subcommittee                                    Grand Center
April 5, 2013 Discussion Summary                                    Great Streets Project

Overview
Stakeholders from the Grand Center District and surrounding environs met with members
of the Great Streets (GS) team on Friday, April 5, 2013. More than 30 community
stakeholders, Grand Center Inc. (GCI) representatives and project officials participated in
the meeting, which was held to accomplish the following objectives:
    Provide information on the project team's work to date;
    Acquaint attendees with the team's design recommendations; and
    Solicit stakeholder feedback on the recommendations.

A list of meeting attendees is presented below.

Attendance
Community Stakeholders, GCI Representatives & EWG Officials:
Emily Pulitzer                 Pulitzer Foundation
Ken Christian                  Stellar Management
Don Stastny                    Stastny Architects
Paul DeMerath                  Scottish Rite
Ken Kranzberg                  Grand Center Inc.
Stan Jones                     Resident
Vince Schoemehl                Grand Center Inc.
Richard Baker                  Fox Theatre
Gene Dobbs Bradford            Jazz At The Bistro
Catty Dam Zhang
Dave Gifford
Tom Kurtz
Paul Reuter
Jack Galmiche
Kristina Van Dyke
Beverly Hacker
Mandy Schulte

Project Team Members:
Paul Hubbman                   East West Gateway
Shay Schindler                 East West Gateway
Dan Jay                        Christner
Laurel Harrington              Christner
Peter Schaudt                  Hoerr Schaudt Landscape Architects
Michael Skowland               Hoerr Schaudt Landscape Architects
Meredith McKinley              Via
Mikey Nowcas                   SWT Design
Hunter Beckham                 SWT Design
Rachel Powers                  Vector Communications




                                                                                              144
Discussion Highlights

 Discussion Topic   Comments
  Overall Plan
  Impressions           ·   Don Stastny: After yesterday I'm thinking about how much
                            orange there is (on the displayed map) versus how limited the
                            built out spaces are on Olive ­versus Washington, which has
                            a lot of non-built out spaces. Over the years Washington is
                            going to become a very new animal. How is whatever we do
                            on Washington able to incentivize the development that will
                            occur? Versus on Olive we are just sprucing up what we
                            know is already there and will be there.
  Sidewalks
                        ·   Beverly Hacker: What is the vegetation control plan to stop
                            weeds from coming up through the pavement?

                        ·   Emily Pulitzer: I think there is a real need for a diagonal
                            walk way to the tilted plain and the Fox. People will always
                            prefer a shortcut.

                        ·   Emily Pulitzer: If you are going to do commercial or
                            residential around the parking, a pathway should be plugged
                            into the thinking.

                        ·   Stan Jones: With the number of people coming to the
                            symphony we need to give those people a route for how to get
                            to the symphony could capitalize on that audience as we also
                            branch out and fill gaps with (different kids of) people.
  Parking
                        ·   Vince Schoemehl: We are planning a new garage behind
                            third Baptist church and looking to reserve spaces for the
                            various venues to sale to their subscribers.
  Traffic
                        ·   Beverly Hacker: Do you have bike lanes?

                        ·   Shay Schindler: We want to make sure we are keeping
                            account of the East West bicycle plans ­ I originally heard
                            Locust was the big street, then Washington.

                        ·   Emily Pulitzer: Are there three lanes at the crossings on
                            Washington?

                        ·   Tom Kurtz: The church needs a drop off at the south east
                            corner of the building. We should have no parking in one



                                                                                            145
                  particular area ­ maybe a bump out that would also help slow
                  traffic coming around the corner; which is also an issue.

              ·   Vince Schoemehl: Did mid-block crossings come up in your
                  TAG meeting before, yesterday? The traffic division has a
                  pronounced diversion to them all together ­ they will do
                  them, but it will take a lot of persuading.

              ·   Paul Reuter: The Sheldon needs a large drop off section. We
                  currently have a yellow line.

              ·   Mandy Schulte: At the corner of Washington Ave and Grand
                  Ave. we have all of our drop offs there. With the restaurants
                  there we will need to be some type of delivery or resident or
                  valet drop offs there ­ also some call-a-rides will pick up
                  there. All deliveries are done up front off Washington. The
                  alley is too small for drop offs.
 ArtWalk/
 Hodiamont    ·   Vince Schoemehl: Please discuss the Hodiamont Midtown
 Connection       loop design. You have an 8ft-dedicated lane on Spring right?

              ·   Mikey Naucas: I'm here to look at the connections with what
                  you all are doing and how that can be integrated with what
                  Bike St. Louis is doing. For the idea with off-street or on-
                  street facilities are all in the data gathering phase.

              ·   Vince Schoemehl: GRG has committed to $100,000 to study
                  this connection because their master plan connects (midtown
                  loop) to St. Vincents Greenway. Already in their plan is a
                  greenway that runs through Grand Center to Central West
                  End. What they don't have yet is how to connect Hodiamont
                  with Grand Center metrolink station, so this is a parallel
                  universe with lots of things going on. Parallel opportunities
                  include: ArtWalk, GRG path, VA, and MSD grant.

              ·   Don Stastny: Let's pull back to the framework plan. There
                  are nodes on Washington Ave and at Spring that we need to
                  really think about the character on those areas. We need a
                  special design look as a total, not just as pieces.

              ·   Vince Schoemehl: With the artwalk coming, I think this
                  whole area will be defined by the artwalk.
 Lighting
              ·   Vince Schoemehl: The most dramatic issues are the lighting
                  issues. Can we talk about that in an overview?



                                                                                  146
·   Paul Reuter: How do the lights interact with the architectural
    lighting of buildings taller than 35 feet?

·   Paul Reuter: We've been trying to get rid of electrical lines,
    etc so how does this light canopy affect sight views?

·   Laurel Harrington: Coming from Compton and
    Vandeventer into Grand Center is a "Choreographed
    Experience" to get to the main event on Grand Ave. ­ with
    lighting, etc.

·   Emily Pulitzer: Is the cable lighting intended for just the side
    streets or the entire district?

·   Emily Pulitzer: Will the cable lighting run along the entire
    side street?

·   Vince Schoemehl: Is the cable lighting carrying electricity?
    How much?

·   Tom Kurtz: How delicate or hardy are these cables, ½ inch?

·   Richard Baker: Randy said the lights themselves are slightly
    larger than a hotdog. We really want to see a sample of the
    wire and unit.

·   Beverly Hacker: On Olive how does that impact the streetcar
    wires?

·   Emily Pulitzer: The cable lighting is a wonderful idea.

·   Beverly Hacker: I really like the idea of the cable lighting
    because it reminds me of street cars

·   Kristina Van Dyke: I am really excited that lighting is a
    dominate theme of this design with the variety of lighting. It
    is really subtle and elegant the way you are using lighting.

·   Don Stastny: What I appreciate is the series of layers of
    lighting. The joint for where the canopy of lights and the
    street lights come together is more revealing and they are
    more art pieces.

·   Kristina Van Dyke: I love the way you can manipulate them
    for how you want to showcase.



                                                                     147
           ·   Don Stastny: You are lighting the space and not just the
               street.

           ·   Jack Galmiche: I like that the way we are designing our own
               facilities we can use your lights to incorporate.

           ·   Tom Kurtz: We need samples!

           ·   Paul Reuter: I know the cable lighting trade off is fewer polls
               but my concern is the daytime look of the cables. We are
               creating a cable car/electrical line look, kind of cluttered look
               in the daytime.

           ·   Kristina Van Dyke: I'm not crazy about the cable lighting
               because of the polls, they feel assembled and not really part of
               the landscape, they seem obtrusive.

           ·   Emily Pulitzer: We do not want the lights to be different
               colors.

           ·   Peter Schaudt: Street with the billboard across from the Fox
               could be a place to test the cable lighting and start there.

           ·   Stan Jones: When you install the lighting systems, I'm
               concerned with modulating it in a way that can be installed
               without it looking fragmented and patchwork. It should be
               included in the plan for a technical installer to consider it.

           ·   Vince Schoemehl: What is being drawn now, if we get
               people to use Compton and Vandeventer they will have to
               know that when they cross Spring and Theresa that they are
               still in Grand Center. We have to prioritize the lighting to
               make sure people feel the continuity and safety.
 Signage
           ·   Vince Schoemehl: We can render things this way, but will
               there be more parking signs and yellow painted black
               granite...what is the TAG say about infrastructure inputs?
               Some place there will be signage of some sort.

           ·   Kristina Van Dyke: For the wayfinding we should be very
               cautious of the font size. Now the signs are too tiny and the
               TOKY signs yesterday continued that small font.

           ·   Ken Kranzberg: With an aging population we need a BIG
               Font.



                                                                                148
 Sustainability
                  ·   Tom Kurtz: Will the salt go through the permeable
                      pavement, is that an issue?

                  ·   Peter Schaudt: We are proposing the curbs because of the
                      roots from the trees that go under the pavement. If you salt the
                      streets it really harms the trees. In our approach it minimizes
                      the connection of salt with the roots due to the curbs.

                  ·   Peter Schaudt: On the side streets it may be very reasonable
                      to plant seedum in trays on an angle in the granite curb. Like
                      what is planted on green roofs. They are very drought tolerant
                      and urban garden friendly.
 New
 Development      ·   Ken Kranzberg: The people who brought the old mission
                      building next to Urban Chestnut are putting $3M in it and are
                      having offices put on the top floor and the first floor will have
                      a party space with a caterer and will be rented out. They have
                      applied for a liquor license.
 Materials
                  ·   Emily Pulitzer: I like concrete if they can install it well and
                      maintain it well.
 Planters
                  ·   Paul Hubbman: The planters help organize the pedestrian
                      area versus the car area and I think it's nice that way.

                  ·   Emily Pulitzer: The planters along Grand, feel very dainty. If
                      we want to highlight the buildings, do we really need those?

                  ·   Beverly Hacker: Why have the low planters, why not high
                      planters to bring your eyes up toward the buildings?

                  ·   Emily Pulitzer: What you've done on Michigan Ave. is
                      fabulous but there are a lot of rich stores that maintain them.
                      It's a different market along Grand Ave.

                  ·   Ken Christian: Without some landscaping it looks too sparse
                      and uninviting. At some level, greenery is very valuable. It
                      would be a mistake not to have some greenery.




                                                                                        149
        Appendix  F:  
      February  Open  
      House  Comment  
      Form  Summary  




                            
                                 150
GREAT STREETS                                        PUBLIC OPEN HOUSE
GRAND CENTER                                      COMMENT FORM REPORT
TO:                   Grand Center Great Streets Project Team
FROM:                 Vector Communications Corp.
RE:                   Open House Comment Form Findings
PROJECT:              Great Streets Grand Center, Project 12082
DATE:                 March 13, 2013

Overview
On Thursday, February 28, 2013, Grand Center Great Streets hosted a public open house
from 6:00 pm to 8:00 pm at the Metropolitan Artists Lofts. One hundred and three
community members and District stakeholders attended this visioning session to discuss
their desires for neighborhood beautification, traffic, parking, streets, sidewalks and
more. Individually and in small groups, participants met with planners who listened to
their aspirations, issues and needs. These planners / project team members are now using
this information to design community solutions that enhance the quality of life in Grand
Center.
As part of the evening's activities, participants viewed open house boards that provided
information on the Great Streets principles, project goals, planning schedule and
analyses, and activities. These boards were clustered in themed stations that covered nine
topics, including:

       Great Streets and Framework Plan           Branding and Wayfinding
       Information
       Spatial Analysis                           Lighting
       Conditions                                 Public Art
       Stormwater                                 Street Sections
       Transportation

After participants toured the nine stations, they were invited to complete an event
comment form. This document asked them to provide basic information about
themselves; share how they learned about the event; evaluate their open house
experience; describe what would make the Great Streets project a success; and provide
additional comments or questions. Twenty-eight participants submitted completed
comment forms. The findings from their submissions have been compiled, aggregated
and summarized and are presented in this document for ease of reference and review.

Participant Background Information

Participants were asked to describe their connections to Grand Center. They were given
nine options from which to select and could choose multiple descriptors. Their answers
are presented in the table on the following page.




                                                                                          
                                                                                               151
  
1.    Which of the following best describes you? Please check all that apply.
            I live in or              I am a student or a parent of            I am a property
            near Grand                a student of a nearby school,            owner in Grand
      19%   Center            41%     college or university              0%    Center
            I work in or
            near Grand                I am a patron of the arts in             I worship in Grand
      19%   Center            48%     Grand Center                       7%    Center
            I shop and/or
            dine in Grand             I am a patient or visitor at the
      41%   Center            7%      Veterans' hospital                 15%   Other
Note: 27 people responded to this question.

Nearly half of those who completed comment forms identified themselves as patrons of
the arts. Forty-one percent also stated that they shop and/or dine in the District and are
either students or parents of students enrolled at institutions of learning in the District.
No property owners submitted comment forms, which could be because of their heavy
involvement in earlier charrette meetings.

Open House Outreach

A variety of outreach mechanisms were employed to generate awareness of and interest
in the public open house. Respondents were asked how they learned about the event to
help project team members identify the information channels that were most effective.
They were allowed to submit multiple responses as they may have been informed about
the event through multiple channels. The table below summarizes their responses.

2. How did you find out about this Open House? Please check all that apply.
      11%   Printed Flyer     33%     Email                              0%    Advertisement
      11%   Website           15%     Social Media / Facebook            41%   Word of Mouth
      0%    Newsletter        26%     Other
Note: 27 people responded to this question.

Respondents identified word of mouth and email as the primary means by which they
found out about the open house. Grand Center's printed flyers and various website
postings also attracted public notice. A little more than a quarter of respondents
identified "other" as their information source, but none provided a written explanation
that illuminated this response.

Event Evaluation

Participants were given the opportunity to comment on their experience of design team
members at the open house. They were asked to assess the extent to which team
members were informative, helpful and prepared using a five-point Likert scale. Using
the same scale, they were also invited to reflect on their overall experience of the open


                                                                                                     
                                                                                                          152
house to determine if the event was well planned and worth their time. Their responses
are presented in the accompanying table.

3.     Please evaluate this event according to the following, circle your answer...

  A.   The design team members were:
        Informative 1.48                                                          Uninformative
             1 (17)           2 (4)                3 (4)             4 (0)            5 (0)
         Helpful (1.48)                                                            Not Helpful
             1 (18)           2 (3)                3 (3)             4 (1)            5 (0)
         Prepared (1.32)                                                           Unprepared
             1 (20)           2 (2)                3 (3)               4                5
  B.   In general the Open House was:
       Well Planned (1.52)                                                         Disorderly
              1 (19)           2 (3)               3 (3)             4 (1)            5 (0)
       Worth My Time (1.2)                                                        Waste of Time
              1 (20)           2 (2)               3 (2)             4 (0)            5 (0)
Note: The numbers in parentheses indicate the frequency of mentions given to each point on the
scale. The average numerical finding is bolded and placed alongside its qualitative descriptor.

On the whole, participants who submitted comment forms found the design team to be
informative, helpful and prepared. They also maintained that the event overall was well
planned and worth their investment of time.

Open Ended Queries
The last part of the comment form presented open-ended questions that allowed
respondents to share their ideas and insights in depth. Two questions were presented for
consideration. The first inquired about what would make the Grand Center Great Streets
project a success. The second simply asked for additional comments or questions for
team review. The responses given to both questions have been unaltered and are bulleted
below.

4.     What would make this project a success to you?

        If it made Grand Center a place I could eat/shop with friends and perhaps had
        places to go out to in the evenings.
        I would have liked to see a forum or talk explaining the specifics of everything
        seen. Along with a Q&A.
        Implementation of ideas that were THE BEST, safest and most sustainable.
        Making it actually happen!
        It would be a success if finances could be secured. It would also be a success if
        people started to talk about it at home, work, school and within their
        neighborhoods. If it creates a dialogue.


                                                                                                   
                                                                                                        153
       Getting the streetscape funded and done. Need to build more housing both
       rental and ownership. A neighborhood needs residents!
       More trees/garden areas and use of permeable pavers near trees. More
       attractions, people and police protection.
       Lots of art, trees and more daytime businesses.
       Better street environment, including more retail and other daytime reasons to
       bring people to the area. Not just arts. Want more diversity, also more homes
       and people living in neighborhoods.
       If the project were carried out like proposed on the presentation posters, it
       would be a huge success!
       This project would be a success if it increases foot traffic.
       If they were to actually consider the recommendations that were made tonight.
       No demolitions of the few brick buildings left. Hide parking garages.
       Make Grand Center a livable area, art district, but also livable. Grocery stores,
       Farmers Market, and more banking (Parking Passes??)
       If this project were able to incorporate students from nearby universities.
       More parking garages. Cul de sac on Grandel, only make it one way.
       Follow through on plans that I saw-also really listen to feedback guests gave on
       boards.
       If the designs cold really incorporate both the feedback from this into your
       existing plans.
       Change of patterns for flow of traffic into and out of Grand Center.
       Grand Center is an existing gift. An old gift that now needs to thrive with a bit
       of attention.


      What, if any, additional comments or questions do you have for design team
5.
      members?

       An idea to bring in younger populations is to have places that are open late.
       Beyond 12am there isn't much to do around here and making centers where
       things are open late would bring people in.
       A little overwhelming. Maybe fewer boards.
       Thanks for the snack.
       The project's north boundary should be Page, not Delmar.
       This was a very worthwhile event. Thank you!
       This open house was much better than previous ones that I have attended.



                                                                                            
                                                                                                 154
       Think about the safety of the area and make it more visually distinct.
       Save the Paladium building. It is a gem of St. Louis' musical history.
       Perhaps implement parking passes (annual) for those that live/work in Grand
       Center. More pedestrian friendly.

Conclusion

The information presented in this document will be reviewed by the design team and
incorporated into its thinking about District streetscape improvements. The report will
also be made available to the public on Grand Center Inc.'s website at
www.grandcenter.org.




                                                                                      
                                                                                           155
        Appendix  G:  Final  
      Presentation  Comment  
        Form  Summary  &  
          Meeting  Q&A  




                                    
                                         156
GREAT STREETS                                            FINAL PRESENTATION
GRAND CENTER                                           COMMENT FORM REPORT
TO:                     Grand Center Great Streets Project Team
FROM:                   Vector Communications Corp.
RE:                     Final Presentation Comment Form Findings
PROJECT:                Great Streets Grand Center, Project 12082
DATE:                   May 17, 2013

Overview
On Thursday, May 9, 2013, Grand Center Great Streets hosted its final presentation
public meeting from 6:00 pm to 8:00 pm at Cardinal Ritter College Preparatory High
School. Seventy-four community members and District stakeholders attended this
meeting to review in detail the design team's recommendations for a more vibrant,
attractive Grand Center. Team members shared their proposed improvements for lighting,
parking, streets and sidewalks, landscaping and beautification, traffic flow, and bicycle
and transit access.
Every member of the project team participated in the 90-minute presentation, which was
followed by a 30-minute question and answer session. The presentation included:

         An overview of Great Streets' principles,
         A synopsis of Grand Center vision statements,
         A summary of the public engagement program,
         Digital survey results,
         An exploration of redevelopment opportunities,
         Streetscape and lighting recommendations,
         A vision of public art in the District, along with guiding principles and strategies,
         Suggested storwmater treatments and best management practices,
         A listing of branding, signage and wayfinding opportunities, and
         Insights on changing travel habits to, from and through Grand Center.

At the meeting's end, meeting participants were invited to complete an event comment
form. This document asked them to provide basic information about themselves; share
how they learned about the event; evaluate their public meeting experience; give their
feedback on the proposed designs; and provide additional comments or questions.
Twenty-five participants submitted completed comment forms. The findings from their
submissions have been compiled and summarized and are presented in this document for
ease of reference and review.

Participant Background Information

Participants were asked to describe their connections to Grand Center. They were given
nine options from which to select and could choose multiple descriptors. Their answers
are presented in the table on the following page.




                                                                                              
                                                                                                   157
1.    Which of the following best describes you? Please check all that apply.
            I live in or             I am a student or a parent of            I am a property
            near Grand               a student of a nearby school,            owner in Grand
      28%   Center            4%     college or university              8%    Center
            I work in or
            near Grand               I am a patron of the arts in             I worship in Grand
      36%   Center            60%    Grand Center                       12%   Center
            I shop and/or
            dine in Grand            I am a patient or visitor at the
      36%   Center            0%     Veterans' hospital                 12%   Other
Note: Respondents were able to select more than one option.

Sixty percent of those who completed comment forms identified themselves as patrons of
the arts. Thirty-six percent also stated that they shop and/or dine in the District and work
in or near Grand Center. And, close to 30% indicated that they either live in or near
Grand Center.

Final Presentation Outreach

A variety of outreach mechanisms were employed to generate awareness of and interest
in the final presentation. Respondents were asked how they learned about the event to
help project team members identify the information channels that were most effective.
They were allowed to submit multiple responses as they may have been informed about
the event through multiple channels. The table below summarizes their responses.

2. How did you find out about this Open House? Please check all that apply.
      0%    Printed Flyer     48%    Email                              4%    Advertisement
      4%    Website           16%    Social Media / Facebook            28%   Word of Mouth
      0%    Newsletter        20%    Other
Note: Respondents were able to select more than one option.

Respondents identified email and word of mouth as the primary means by which they
found out about the final presentation. Grand Center's social media also attracted public
notice. Twenty percent of respondents identified "other" as their information source, but
none provided a written explanation that illuminated this response.

Event Evaluation

Participants were given the opportunity to comment on their experience of design team
members at the final presentation. They were asked to assess the extent to which team
members were informative and prepared using a five-point Likert scale. Using the same
scale, they were also invited to reflect on their overall experience of the meeting to
determine if it was well planned and worth their time. Their responses are presented in
the accompanying table.


                                                                                                    
                                                                                                         158
3.       Please evaluate this event according to the following, circle your answer...

  A.     The design team members were:
             Informative                                                            Uninformative
          1 (Average = 1.58)     2                     3                 4                5
              Prepared                                                               Unprepared
          1 (Average = 1.42)     2                     3                 4                5
  B.     In general the Open House was:
             Well Planned                                                            Disorderly
          1 (Average = 1.52)     2 (3)                3 (3)            4 (1)            5 (0)
            Worth My Time                                                           Waste of Time
          1 (Average = 1.61)     2 (2)                3 (2)            4 (0)            5 (0)

On the whole, participants who submitted comment forms found the design team to be
informative and prepared. They also maintained that the event overall was well planned
and worth their investment of time.

Open Ended Queries
The last part of the comment form presented open-ended questions that allowed
respondents to share their ideas and insights in depth. Two questions were presented for
consideration. The first inquired about what participants thought of the design team's
proposed designs. The second simply asked for additional comments or questions for
team review. The responses given to both questions have been unaltered and are bulleted
below.

        What do you think about the proposed designs for a more vibrant and
4.
        attractive Grand Center?

        Love it! I love the lighting ideas and the green ideas.
        I think, overall, it is awesome.
        Artistically, very nice with the benches, lighting, planting, etc. What about bus stop
        placement? What about food, clothing and shelter for residents?
        Like most, looks great. I don't like the contemporary lighting. I like the idea, but the
        design does not enhance the architecture in the district and seems disconnected.
        Bring it on!
        I like the lighting plan. It feels more open. I like the paintings because it adds warmth.
        I am concerned about narrowing streets on Grand and Washington.
        Nice for Grand, but Grand Center includes Vandeventer, but there hasn't been any
        specific discussion about Vandeventer Avenue.
        Vast improvement and greatly needed. This could make a huge offering to the region
        visually.
        Very positive. Love the lighting and wider sidewalks, especially.
        Looks good. Would like to hear how this will be funded.



                                                                                                      
                                                                                                           159
  
       What do you think about the proposed designs for a more vibrant and
4.
       attractive Grand Center?
  
       I am from St. Louis Shakespeare. We have been performing at the Grandel for about 20
       years. We belong here. We want to stay here. We value our collaborations with each
       school, arts organization, restaurant, etc. Like the Fox, Sheldon, Powell, SLU, etc. Our
       audiences converge on Grand Center from all points of teh Bi-State region, and beyond.
       Almost every student has to study Shakespeare, so we draw school buses from Cape
       Girardeau, Springfield, Rolla, Quincy, Columbia, etc. We LOVE sharing the Grand
       Center with all these students! They know they are someplace special! Some of your
       speakers tonight emphasized the "Theatricality" of Grand Center. I like that! Please tell
       me how St. Lousi Shakespeare can help! Gratefully, Kathy Doerr, St. Louis
       Shakespeare, (314) 882-0407 cell, or (314) 622-3659 office.
       Improving basic infrastructure will have the greatest impact (sidewalks and basic
       lighting). Lighting too modern will not age well. Also, there is too much Greenspace to
       activate. It will be dead. It's better to focus activity on Strauss Park. The more street
       parking, the better and please consider smart meters (pay by credit card). Bike parking
       is important, as well.
       A good start.
       Very complicated!
       Nice ideas.
       Very comprehensive for the urban context; placemaking is very important along with
       the streetscape. Like the creative benches, lighting and more bike lanes!
       I like the wide sidewalks, green space, and lighting ideas for streets and buildings.
       Really consider residential. Don't make the mistake of building homes/condos.
       Consider affordable rental properties. When/if those fill, then consider adding or
       switching to ownership properties (rentals must come first).
       Not sure how vibrant and attractive the final results will be, without addressing several
       abandoned buildings in between Cook and Delmar.


       What, if any, additional comments or questions do you have for design team
5.
       members?

       Don't let races/marathons block access from Highway 64/40 through Grand to Rock
       Church.
       I am 100% behind the revitalization efforts, especially the residentail development.
       Love the "Hot Dog" lights and proposed outdoor room around Strauss Parlor. I like all
       the signage options (exit signs).
       How does the proposal add to Vandeventer Avenue?
       The Northeast corner of Grand and Lindell does need to be addressed, so that
       commercial begins at Lindell. No dog park there, please.
       Presentation was very detailed, but too long.




                                                                                                    
                                                                                                         160
  
       What, if any, additional comments or questions do you have for design team
5.
       members?
  
       I wish we could find something a little more inspired for the plazas, than the common
       variety pavers. How about reclaimed brick? Even shimmering concrete squares would
       be better. Try to be less like McDonald's.
       Where will the money come from?
       If you focus on lighting on Grand area, what about the surrounding areas? How do we
       integrate residential living with the great Grand experience, to uplift the urban
       community!!!
       The presentation was way too, long. While it contained lots of good information, it was
       a lot to digest.
       Add grocery stores. Encourage livable neighborhoods. Think about what exists in a
       neighborhood or community. Note, things must, must, be affordable, first. Thus
       enticing public to live there. Once people live there, and it is densely populated as a
       neighborhood city should be, once demand is high, then move to Phase 2, increased
       value of property, ownership, etc.
       As a homeowever, I would be interested in knowing more about community
       development of homes and businesses between Bell and Page Avenue on Grand.

Conclusion

The information presented in this document will be reviewed by the design team and
incorporated into its thinking about District streetscape improvements.




                                                                                                  
                                                                                                       161
GREAT STREETS                                                        FINAL PRESENTATION
GRAND CENTER                                                        PUBLIC MEETING Q & A
Date:                       Thursday, May 9, 2013
Time:                       5:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m.
Location:                   Cardinal Ritter College Preparatory High School
Attendees:                  Members of the Public
Meeting Purpose:            Public Meeting
Project:                    Great Streets Grand Center
Project Number:             12082
                                                          
Overview  
The  following  pages  contain  a  summary  of  the  questions  and  comments  made  by  
members  of  the  public  at  the  Thursday,  May  9th  Grand  Center  Great  Streets  public  
open  house.    


      1. Comment: I love the overall concept presented tonight, but what concerns me
         greatly is that the prime gateway to the neighborhood ­ Grand and Lindell ­ is
         getting very little attention. The fact that the team is not pushing SLU to do
         something with this gateway is problematic. This is a high density corner and
         really should be developed as more than a sculpture park. The team's large
         efforts are undermined without that corner being developed. It remains negative
         space and you're losing an opportunity to brand the prime entry into the
         neighborhood.
      2. Comment: I'm not an urban planner, but to me Grand Center is not a warm
         space. In your presentation it just looks like you're doctoring up the coldness of
         Grand. You should consider closing the thoroughfare and making it a pedestrian
         walkway. Be disruptive and take big steps.
      3. Comment & Question: You're going to redo the park at Grand and Washington.
         What are you going to do with the existing statues and Bible stand? There are a
         lot of disabled people who live along this corridor. The city's already taking bus
         stops out. What's the reasoning for this? And what will be done in the future?
         Response: The existing elements in the park can be worked into a new design. It
         is our intention to leave them there. As for the buses, there is a proposal from
         Metro to look at the bus stops and to change where they are located to
         accommodate the larger buses that are coming on line. New stops are proposed
         south of Olive and flanking Enright.
      4. Comment & Question: I have occasion to use the bus stops and the locations
         you mention that are being proposed are farther apart than the existing ones. On
         another note, can you tell me about this park that's being developed in
         cooperation with the Pulitzer and Washington University?
         Response: The "park" is actually not a permanent project; it's a temporary
         installation that's called the Pixel. It is a design competition for artisan designers
         to create temporary pavilion spaces. My understanding is that it will be open to


                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                      162
         the public in 2014. To my knowledge it would not necessarily be an ongoing
         program. The reason it is there is because it is on land owned by the Pulitzer
         Foundation and it is a project of the museum.
      5. Comment: We need a plaza that focuses on the Sheldon.
      6. Question: Where is the site that you are discussing now?
         Response: It is on Washington Boulevard, across the street from the Pulitzer and
         next to Bruno.
      7. Question: How far north are the new lights going to go?
         Response: The lights would go from Lindell on the south to Cook on the north.
      8. Comment: I think your porous pavement is a great idea in terms of stormwater
         management, but it will provide a major headache for all of your street trees with
         all of the salt that the city uses in the winter.
         Response: You're right, this can happen when it sits, but the pavers that we are
         proposing have a flushing action. Detailing can address some of your concern.




                                                                                             
                                                                                                  163
Appendix H: Public
 Communications
      Log




                     164
                                                      Grand Center Great Streets Public Communications Log

                First      Last                                                                                            Response
        Date    Name       Name     Organization         Email                 Issue, Comment, Question                      Date                     Action Taken
                                                                       When you install the round-a-bouts, will
                                                                       MetroBus be able to navigate Grand? Will you
                                                                       have convenient bus stops on Grand for
                                                                       people who take public transit to Grand
                                                                       Center? (I, We eat at the resturants and attend
                                                                       show at Grand Center too).

                                                                       Route #70 Grand is the busiest bus line in
                                                                       Missouri. Bus #70 carries almost 45,000
                                                                       passengers a month. Almost as much as
                                                                       MetroLink.

                                                                       The reason I am leaving a comment is because
                                                                       in the St. Louis Region, People who take
                                                                       public transit espically MetroBus, are not
                                                                       considered or factored into urban planning.
                                                                       We are an afterthought. We enjoy and attend
                                                                       all the same events as people in cars do.
                                                                       Everyone who rides MetroBus is the poor. We
                                                                       have more disposolable income because we
                                                                       don't have to pay for gas, parking, car
                                                                       insuranse, etc. If I have to walk a country mile
                                                                       because of lack of bus stops, I will be less
                                                                       lackly to spend my disposalble income in an
                                                                       entertainment district that don't consider me as
                                                                       valuable as someone in a car.
         18-                        Grand Center,   michelle@grandce
         Mar   Michelle   Stevens   Inc             nter.org           Thank you                                            18-Mar    Vince Schoemehl responded to this comment.
                                                                                                                                      Dear Mr. Hoffman: Thank you for your
                                                                                                                                      feedback regarding the Grand Center Great
                                                                                                                                      Streets survey. I will share your insights with
                                                                       I received the invitation to take this survey                  the design team and project sponsors. If you are
                                                                       from the SLSO. I would like to participate,                    unable to complete the survey because of time
                                                                       but I certainly don't have 15-20 minutes to                    constraints, I do hope that you follow the
                                                                       devote to this, and I imagine that a lot of other              project's progress via Grand Center's website at
                                                                       people are in my same situation (and I note                    www.grandcenter.org. I will also have your
                                                                       from the email that incomplete surveys will                    email address added to Grand Center's database
                                                                       not be honored). I think the survey could be                   so that you can receive periodic invitations to
                                                                       important and very useful, but I wish you                      project events and District activities. Again,
         18-                        Community                          would offer something more convenient.                         thank you for your interest in and commitment to
         Mar   Allen      Hoffman   Member                             Thank you, Allen Hoffman, Shrewsbury                 18-Mar    Grand Center. All The Best, Rebeccah Bennett




165
                                                                                                                                                                                          
    
                First     Last                                                                                     Response
        Date    Name      Name    Organization       Email                Issue, Comment, Question                   Date                     Action Taken
                                                                                                                              Good Morning Ms. Murphy, Thank you for your
                                                                                                                              interest in participating in the Grand Center
                                                                                                                              District planning efforts. Input from local
                                                                                                                              residents is extremely valuable to the process.
                                                                                                                              East-West Gateway and Grand Center Inc. have
                                                                                                                              been working on a planning concept for the
                                                                                                                              district as part of our Great Streets effort since
                                                                                                                              January. The final report to the community will
                                                                                                                              be held on May 9th (reception begins at 5:00pm
                                                                                                                              and the presentation will be from 6-8) at
                                                                                                                              Cardinal Ritter high school and I encourage you
                                                                                                                              to attend if you are available. Although this
                                                                                                                              process is nearing completion, you will have the
                                                                                                                              opportunity to ask questions at this meeting and
                                                                                                                              learn about ways to get involved with this effort
                                                                                                                              as it moves forward into implementation. I have
                                                                   I am very interested in the Meetings that are              cc'ed our public involvement representative from
                                                                   being held concerning the Grand Blvd Arts                  the Great Streets project, she should be able to
                                                                   area and the sessions being held for                       get you plugged in. I would also suggest
                                                                   discussion and planning for Grand Center on                checking out Grand Center's website, which has
                                                                   May 8, 2013. I want details and long range                 the most up to date info about how to get
                                                                   and short range details. What is being done                involved (http://www.grandcenter.org/). Please
         1-                       Community      barbara5285@sbc   for the long-time residents of the area as                 let me know if I can answer any questions you
        May    Barbara   Murphy   Member         global.net        opposed to the new arrivals.                     8-May     may have.
                                                                                                                              Hello Ms. Murphy: Thank you for your interest
                                                                                                                              in recent efforts to make Grand Center a more
                                                                                                                              vibrant, attractive community. As Shay
                                                                                                                              Schindler indicated in her email response,
                                                                                                                              tonight's public meeting is an opportunity for
                                                                                                                              you to learn about the proposed designs for an
                                                                                                                              improved Grand Center. The project team will
                                                                                                                              conduct a formal presentation, sharing 142 slides
                                                                                                                              of information on the project's background,
                                                                                                                              Great Streets approach, lighting, public art,
                                                                                                                              storm water management, wayfinding and
                                                                   I am very interested in the meetings that are              branding, transportation, and development
                                                                   being held concerning the Grand Blvd Arts                  opportunities. The project's details will be
                                                                   area and the sessions being held for                       discussed and there will be plenty of opportunity
                                                                   discussion and planning for Grand Center on                for you to ask questions of the team. I hope to
                                                                   May 8, 2013. I want details and long range                 see you this evening and have enclosed meeting
                                                                   and short range details. What is being done                information below.
         9-                       Community      barbara5285@sbc   for the long-time residents of the area as                 All The Best,




166
        May    Barbara   Murphy   Member         global.net        opposed to the new arrivals.                     9-May     Rebeccah


                                                                                                                                                                                    
Appendix I: Directional
    Distribution
    Background




                          167
168
Appendix J: Traffic
   Count Data




                      169
                                                                        Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                                      1830 Craig Park Court, Suite 209
                                                                          Saint Louis, MO 63146
N/S Street: Grand Blvd                                                              File Name         : Loc 1 - Grand Blvd & Washington Blvd AM
E/W Street: Washington Blvd                                                         Site Code         : 01130011
City/State: St. Louis, MO                                                           Start Date        : 2/20/2013
Job Number: 1-13                                                                    Page No           :1


                                                                         Groups Printed- Unshifted
                         Grand Blvd                            Washington Blvd                     Grand Blvd                        Washington Blvd
                         Southbound                               Westbound                        Northbound                          Eastbound
Start Time     Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds     App. Total   Left Thru Right      Peds     App. Total   Int. Total
 07:30 AM       19    110       3       0      132         0    16    19     0      35      7 137        2    0      146         0    17   13          0           30         343
 07:45 AM       26    133       9       0      168         0    16    14     0      30     10 106        5    0      121         0    35   11          0           46         365
      Total     45    243      12       0      300         0    32    33     0      65     17 243        7    0      267         0    52   24          0           76         708

 08:00 AM        13     99      7       0      119         0     13      20    0    33     9    107      7   0       123         0      26     10      0          36        311
 08:15 AM         9    100      3       0      112         3     18       8    0    29    10     82      9   0       101         1      24     14      0          39        281
 Grand Total     67    442     22       0      531         3     63      61    0   127    36    432     23   0       491         1    102      48      0         151       1300
 Apprch %      12.6   83.2    4.1       0                2.4   49.6      48    0         7.3     88    4.7   0                 0.7   67.5    31.8      0
  Total %       5.2     34    1.7       0     40.8       0.2    4.8     4.7    0   9.8   2.8   33.2    1.8   0      37.8       0.1     7.8    3.7      0         11.6




                                                                                                                                                           170
                                                                       Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                                     1830 Craig Park Court, Suite 209
                                                                         Saint Louis, MO 63146
N/S Street: Grand Blvd                                                              File Name         : Loc 1 - Grand Blvd & Washington Blvd AM
E/W Street: Washington Blvd                                                         Site Code         : 01130011
City/State: St. Louis, MO                                                           Start Date        : 2/20/2013
Job Number: 1-13                                                                    Page No           :1


                                                                          Groups Printed- Bank 2
                         Grand Blvd                            Washington Blvd                     Grand Blvd                        Washington Blvd
                         Southbound                              Westbound                        Northbound                           Eastbound
Start Time     Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds     App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds      App. Total   Int. Total
 07:30 AM        0     10       0       0         10       0     0     1     0        1     0     9     0     0          9       0     0     1    0              1          21
 07:45 AM        0     10       0       0         10       0     0     1     0        1     0     5     0     0          5       0     2     0    0              2          18
      Total      0     20       0       0         20       0     0     2     0        2     0    14     0     0         14       0     2     1    0              3          39

 08:00 AM        0       3      0       0          3       0     0       1    0      1     0      8     0    0           8       0      0      0   0             0          12
 08:15 AM        0       6      0       0          6       0     1       0    0      1     0      7     0    0           7       0      0      0   0             0          14
 Grand Total     0      29      0       0         29       0     1       3    0      4     0     29     0    0          29       0      2      1   0             3          65
 Apprch %        0     100      0       0                  0    25      75    0            0    100     0    0                   0   66.7   33.3   0
  Total %        0    44.6      0       0     44.6         0   1.5     4.6    0    6.2     0   44.6     0    0      44.6         0    3.1    1.5   0         4.6




                                                                                                                                                       171
                                                                        Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                                      1830 Craig Park Court, Suite 209
                                                                          Saint Louis, MO 63146
N/S Street: Grand Blvd                                                              File Name          : Loc 1 - Grand Blvd & Washington Blvd AM
E/W Street: Washington Blvd                                                         Site Code          : 01130011
City/State: St. Louis, MO                                                           Start Date         : 2/20/2013
Job Number: 1-13                                                                    Page No            :1


                                                                          Groups Printed- Bank 1
                         Grand Blvd                            Washington Blvd                    Grand Blvd                        Washington Blvd
                         Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                           Eastbound
Start Time     Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds      App. Total   Int. Total
 07:30 AM        0       5      0       0           5      0     2     0     0        2     0    1     0     0           1      0     0     0    0              0           8
 07:45 AM        0       0      0       0           0      0     0     0     0        0     0    3     0     0           3      0     0     0    0              0           3
      Total      0       5      0       0           5      0     2     0     0        2     0    4     0     0           4      0     0     0    0              0          11

 08:00 AM        0       1      0       0          1       0      2       1    0      3     0      3     0   0          3       0     0     0     0             0           7
 08:15 AM        0       4      0       0          4       0      0       0    0      0     1      5     0   0          6       0     0     0     0             0          10
 Grand Total     0      10      0       0         10       0      4       1    0      5     1     12     0   0         13       0     0     0     0             0          28
 Apprch %        0     100      0       0                  0     80      20    0          7.7   92.3     0   0                  0     0     0     0
  Total %        0    35.7      0       0     35.7         0   14.3     3.6    0   17.9   3.6   42.9     0   0     46.4         0     0     0     0             0




                                                                                                                                                      172
                                                                        Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                                      1830 Craig Park Court, Suite 209
                                                                          Saint Louis, MO 63146
N/S Street: Grand Blvd                                                              File Name           : Loc 1 - Grand Blvd & Washington Blvd PM
E/W Street: Washington Blvd                                                         Site Code           : 01130013
City/State: St. Louis, MO                                                           Start Date          : 2/20/2013
Job Number: 1-13                                                                    Page No             :1


                                                                         Groups Printed- Unshifted
                         Grand Blvd                            Washington Blvd                     Grand Blvd                        Washington Blvd
                         Southbound                               Westbound                        Northbound                          Eastbound
Start Time     Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds     App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds      App. Total   Int. Total
 04:30 PM       19    147       7       0      173         0    30    21     0      51      8 108        0    0      116         0    29   19     0            48         388
 04:45 PM       18    121       4       0      143         0    20     8     0      28     16 113        0    0      129         3    26     9    0            38         338
      Total     37    268      11       0      316         0    50    29     0      79     24 221        0    0      245         3    55   28     0            86         726

 05:00 PM       15     128      8       0      151         0     33      14    0    47      14    144     0   0      158         2      32     16   0         50        406
 05:15 PM        7     150      2       0      159         0     39      11    0    50      18    131     0   0      149         0      22      6   0         28        386
 Grand Total    59     546     21       0      626         0    122      54    0   176      56    496     0   0      552         5    109      50   0        164       1518
 Apprch %      9.4    87.2    3.4       0                  0   69.3    30.7    0          10.1   89.9     0   0                  3   66.5    30.5   0
  Total %      3.9      36    1.4       0     41.2         0      8     3.6    0   11.6    3.7   32.7     0   0     36.4       0.3     7.2    3.3   0        10.8




                                                                                                                                                       173
                                                                        Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                                      1830 Craig Park Court, Suite 209
                                                                          Saint Louis, MO 63146
N/S Street: Grand Blvd                                                              File Name         : Loc 1 - Grand Blvd & Washington Blvd PM
E/W Street: Washington Blvd                                                         Site Code         : 01130013
City/State: St. Louis, MO                                                           Start Date        : 2/20/2013
Job Number: 1-13                                                                    Page No           :1


                                                                          Groups Printed- Bank 2
                         Grand Blvd                            Washington Blvd                     Grand Blvd                        Washington Blvd
                         Southbound                              Westbound                        Northbound                           Eastbound
Start Time     Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds     App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds      App. Total   Int. Total
 04:30 PM        0      4       0       0          4       0     2     0     0        2     1    13     0     0         14       0     0     0    0              0          20
 04:45 PM        0      8       0       0          8       0     0     0     0        0     0     7     0     0          7       0     1     0    0              1          16
      Total      0     12       0       0         12       0     2     0     0        2     1    20     0     0         21       0     1     0    0              1          36

 05:00 PM        0       5      0       0          5       0      0      0     0     0     0      7     0    0           7       0      0    0     0             0          12
 05:15 PM        0       3      0       0          3       0      2      0     0     2     0      5     0    0           5       0      0    0     0             0          10
 Grand Total     0      20      0       0         20       0      4      0     0     4     1     32     0    0          33       0      1    0     0             1          58
 Apprch %        0     100      0       0                  0   100       0     0           3     97     0    0                   0   100     0     0
  Total %        0    34.5      0       0     34.5         0    6.9      0     0   6.9   1.7   55.2     0    0      56.9         0    1.7    0     0         1.7




                                                                                                                                                       174
                                                                       Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                                     1830 Craig Park Court, Suite 209
                                                                         Saint Louis, MO 63146
N/S Street: Grand Blvd                                                             File Name        : Loc 1 - Grand Blvd & Washington Blvd PM
E/W Street: Washington Blvd                                                        Site Code        : 01130013
City/State: St. Louis, MO                                                          Start Date       : 2/20/2013
Job Number: 1-13                                                                   Page No          :1


                                                                          Groups Printed- Bank 1
                         Grand Blvd                            Washington Blvd                    Grand Blvd                        Washington Blvd
                         Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                           Eastbound
Start Time     Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds      App. Total   Int. Total
 04:30 PM        0       0      0       0           0      0     0     0     0        0     0    2     0     0           2      0     1     0    0              1            3
 04:45 PM        0       1      0       0           1      0     0     0     0        0     0    0     0     0           0      0     0     0    0              0            1
      Total      0       1      0       0           1      0     0     0     0        0     0    2     0     0           2      0     1     0    0              1            4

 05:00 PM        0      0       0       0           0      0     0      0     0     0     0     1     0     0            1      0     1     0     0             1            2
 05:15 PM        0      1       0       0           1      0     0      0     0     0     0     1     0     0            1      0     0     0     0             0            2
 Grand Total     0      2       0       0           2      0     0      0     0     0     0     4     0     0            4      0     2     0     0             2            8
 Apprch %        0    100       0       0                  0     0      0     0           0   100     0     0                   0   100     0     0
  Total %        0     25       0       0         25       0     0      0     0     0     0    50     0     0          50       0    25     0     0           25




                                                                                                                                                      175
                                                                     Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                                   1830 Craig Park Court, Suite 209
                                                                       Saint Louis, MO 63146
N/S Street: Grand Blvd                                                                 File Name      : Loc 2 - Grand Blvd & Olive St AM & PM
E/W Street: Olive St                                                                   Site Code      : 11321111
City/State: St. Louis, MO                                                              Start Date     : 2/20/2013
Job Number: 1-13                                                                       Page No        :1


                                                                        Groups Printed- Unshifted
                        Grand Blvd                                Olive St                       Grand Blvd                           Olive St
                        Southbound                              Westbound                        Northbound                          Eastbound
 Start Time     Left Thru Right Peds     App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
  07:30 AM        0 102     10     1        113         7       3     1     0      11    37 121       5     0      163         0     3    9     1         13         300
  07:45 AM        0 154      8     9        171         6     10      2     0      18    29 134       4     1      168         1     7   20     3         31         388
      Total       0 256     18    10        284        13     13      3     0      29    66 255       9     1      331         1   10    29     4         44         688

   08:00 AM       0   110    6       5      121         2      1      0     0      3    29   124    12     3       168         3    3    14      3        23         315
   08:15 AM       0    99   10       3      112         4      5      1     1     11    27    99     7     4       137         4    6     7      1        18         278
*** BREAK ***
       Total      0   209   16       8      233         6      6      1     1     14    56   223    19     7       305         7    9    21      4        41         593

*** BREAK ***

  04:30 PM        0   151    0     8        159        12     12      5     4     33     8   116     6    14       144         8   10    35      5        58         394
  04:45 PM        0   144    2     5        151        11      6      8     4     29    12   131     5     4       152         5    9    25      0        39         371
      Total       0   295    2    13        310        23     18     13     8     62    20   247    11    18       296        13   19    60      5        97         765

  05:00 PM        0 142       4     7      153    22           16    4      5     47   11 151        10     7     179     7    6         40     2        55         434
  05:15 PM        0 164       2     5      171    20            9    9      4     42    7 150         9     4     170    10   10         32     0        52         435
 Grand Total      0 1066     42    43     1151    84           62  30      18    194  160 1026       58    37    1281    38   54        182    15       289        2915
  Apprch %        0 92.6    3.6   3.7           43.3           32 15.5    9.3        12.5 80.1      4.5   2.9          13.1 18.7         63   5.2
   Total %        0 36.6    1.4   1.5      39.5  2.9          2.1    1    0.6    6.7  5.5 35.2        2   1.3     43.9  1.3  1.9        6.2   0.5        9.9




                                                                                                                                                 176
                                                                     Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                                   1830 Craig Park Court, Suite 209
                                                                       Saint Louis, MO 63146
N/S Street: Grand Blvd                                                                File Name     : Loc 2 - Grand Blvd & Olive St AM & PM
E/W Street: Olive St                                                                  Site Code     : 11321111
City/State: St. Louis, MO                                                             Start Date    : 2/20/2013
Job Number: 1-13                                                                      Page No       :1


                                                                        Groups Printed- Bank 2
                       Grand Blvd                                Olive St                      Grand Blvd                           Olive St
                       Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                          Eastbound
 Start Time     Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
  07:30 AM        0     8    0     0          8        0       0     0    0        0     2     5    0     0         7        1     0    0     0           1          16
  07:45 AM        0   13     0     0         13        0       0     0    0        0     2     8    0     0        10        1     0    0     0           1          24
      Total       0   21     0     0         21        0       0     0    0        0     4    13    0     0        17        2     0    0     0           2          40

   08:00 AM       0    5     0      0          5       0      0       0     0     0     1    6     0     0           7       1    0     3      0          4          16
   08:15 AM       0    6     0      0          6       1      0       0     0     1     0    4     0     0           4       3    0     1      0          4          15
*** BREAK ***
       Total      0   11     0      0        11        1      0       0     0     1     1   10     0     0         11        4    0     4      0          8          31

*** BREAK ***

  04:30 PM        0    3     0      0          3       0      0       0     0     0     0   11     0     0         11        3    0     0      0          3          17
  04:45 PM        0    5     0      0          5       0      0       0     0     0     0    6     0     0          6        2    0     0      0          2          13
      Total       0    8     0      0          8       0      0       0     0     0     0   17     0     0         17        5    0     0      0          5          30

  05:00 PM        0    6     0      0         6        0       1      0     0     1      0    4    0     0          4   3         0     0      0         3          14
  05:15 PM        0    5     0      0         5        0       0      0     0     0      0    4    0     0          4   2         0     0      0         2          11
 Grand Total      0   51     0      0        51        1       1      0     0     2      5   48    0     0         53  16         0     4      0        20         126
  Apprch %        0 100      0      0                 50      50      0     0          9.4 90.6    0     0             80         0    20      0
   Total %        0 40.5     0      0     40.5       0.8     0.8      0     0   1.6      4 38.1    0     0      42.1 12.7         0   3.2      0     15.9




                                                                                                                                               177
                                                                     Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                                   1830 Craig Park Court, Suite 209
                                                                       Saint Louis, MO 63146
N/S Street: Grand Blvd                                                                 File Name    : Loc 2 - Grand Blvd & Olive St AM & PM
E/W Street: Olive St                                                                   Site Code    : 11321111
City/State: St. Louis, MO                                                              Start Date   : 2/20/2013
Job Number: 1-13                                                                       Page No      :1


                                                                        Groups Printed- Bank 1
                       Grand Blvd                                Olive St                      Grand Blvd                           Olive St
                       Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                          Eastbound
 Start Time     Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
  07:30 AM        0     2    0     0           2       1       2     0    0        3     0     2    0     0          2       0     0    0     0           0           7
  07:45 AM        0     3    0     0           3       0       0     0    0        0     0     4    0     0          4       0     0    0     0           0           7
      Total       0     5    0     0           5       1       2     0    0        3     0     6    0     0          6       0     0    0     0           0          14

   08:00 AM       0    0     0      0          0       0      0       0     0     0      0    1     0    0           1       0    0     0      0          0             1
   08:15 AM       0    2     0      0          2       0      1       0     0     1      0    5     0    0           5       0    0     1      0          1             9
*** BREAK ***
       Total      0    2     0      0          2       0      1       0     0     1      0    6     0    0           6       0    0     1      0          1          10

*** BREAK ***

  04:30 PM        0    1     0      0          1       0      0       0     0     0      0    2     0    0           2       0    0     0      0          0             3
  04:45 PM        0    1     0      0          1       0      0       0     0     0      0    0     0    0           0       0    0     0      0          0             1
      Total       0    2     0      0          2       0      0       0     0     0      0    2     0    0           2       0    0     0      0          0             4

*** BREAK ***
   05:15 PM       0    1     0      0         1        0       0      0     0     0      0    2     0    0          2        0    0     0      0          0           3
 Grand Total      0   10     0      0        10        1       3      0     0     4      0   16     0    0         16        0    0     1      0          1          31
  Apprch %        0 100      0      0                 25      75      0     0            0 100      0    0                   0    0   100      0
   Total %        0 32.3     0      0     32.3       3.2     9.7      0     0   12.9     0 51.6     0    0      51.6         0    0   3.2      0       3.2




                                                                                                                                               178
                                                                        Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                                      1830 Craig Park Court, Suite 209
                                                                          Saint Louis, MO 63146
N/S Street: Theresa Ave                                                            File Name        : Loc 3 - Theresa Ave & Washington Blvd AM
E/W Street: Washington Blvd                                                        Site Code        : 11311111
City/State: St. Louis, MO                                                          Start Date       : 2/26/2013
Job Number: 1-13                                                                   Page No          :1


                                                                         Groups Printed- Unshifted
                        Theresa Ave                            Washington Blvd                     Theresa Ave                           Washington Blvd
                        Southbound                                Westbound                        Northbound                              Eastbound
Start Time     Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds         App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds      App. Total   Int. Total
 07:30 AM        1       0      1       0           2      0    19     0     1      20      4      1     1     1             7       1    34     3    0           38           67
 07:45 AM        1       0      1       0           2      4    21     0     0      25      3      0     1     0             4       0    57     4    1           62           93
      Total      2       0      2       0           4      4    40     0     1      45      7      1     2     1            11       1    91     7    1          100          160

 08:00 AM        1       0      0       0           1      2     14      0     0    16       4      1      2      0          7       1     47     4     0         52           76
 08:15 AM        0       0      0       1           1      2     14      0     4    20       3      1      2      3          9       1     32     2     1         36           66
 Grand Total     3       0      2       1           6      8     68      0     5    81      14      3      6      4         27       3    170    13     2        188          302
 Apprch %       50       0   33.3    16.7                9.9     84      0   6.2          51.9   11.1   22.2   14.8                1.6   90.4   6.9   1.1
  Total %        1       0    0.7     0.3           2    2.6   22.5      0   1.7   26.8    4.6      1      2    1.3       8.9        1   56.3   4.3   0.7        62.3




                                                                                                                                                           179
                                                                       Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                                     1830 Craig Park Court, Suite 209
                                                                         Saint Louis, MO 63146
N/S Street: Theresa Ave                                                           File Name    : Loc 3 - Theresa Ave & Washington Blvd AM
E/W Street: Washington Blvd                                                       Site Code    : 11311111
City/State: St. Louis, MO                                                         Start Date   : 2/26/2013
Job Number: 1-13                                                                  Page No      :1


                                                                        Groups Printed- Bank 2
                      Theresa Ave                            Washington Blvd                   Theresa Ave                        Washington Blvd
                      Southbound                               Westbound                       Northbound                           Eastbound
 Start Time  Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds      App. Total   Int. Total
  07:30 AM     0       0      0       0           0      0     1     0     0        1     0    0     0     0           0      0     1     0    0              1            2
*** BREAK ***
       Total   0       0      0       0           0      0      1       0     0      1   0     0    0     0            0      0     1     0     0             1            2

  08:00 AM     0       0      1       0           1       0      1      0     0      1   0     0    0     0            0      0      2    0     0             2            4
  08:15 AM     0       0      0       0           0       1      0      0     0      1   0     0    0     0            0      0      0    0     0             0            1
 Grand Total   0       0      1       0           1       1      2      0     0      3   0     0    0     0            0      0      3    0     0             3            7
  Apprch %     0       0    100       0                33.3   66.7      0     0          0     0    0     0                   0    100    0     0
   Total %     0       0   14.3       0     14.3       14.3   28.6      0     0   42.9   0     0    0     0            0      0   42.9    0     0         42.9




                                                                                                                                                    180
                                                                       Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                                     1830 Craig Park Court, Suite 209
                                                                         Saint Louis, MO 63146
N/S Street: Theresa Ave                                                           File Name      : Loc 3 - Theresa Ave & Washington Blvd AM
E/W Street: Washington Blvd                                                       Site Code      : 11311111
City/State: St. Louis, MO                                                         Start Date     : 2/26/2013
Job Number: 1-13                                                                  Page No        :1


                                                                          Groups Printed- Bank 1
                        Theresa Ave                            Washington Blvd                   Theresa Ave                        Washington Blvd
                        Southbound                               Westbound                       Northbound                           Eastbound
Start Time     Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds      App. Total   Int. Total
  07:30 AM       0       0      0       0           0      0     0     0     0        0     0    0     0     0           0      0     0     1    0              1            1
  07:45 AM       0       0      0       0           0      0     0     0     0        0     0    0     0     0           0      0     2     0    0              2            2
       Total     0       0      0       0           0      0     0     0     0        0     0    0     0     0           0      0     2     1    0              3            3

  08:00 AM    0          0      0       0           0      0     2      0     0     2     0     0     0     0            0      0     0      0    0             0            2
*** BREAK ***
  Grand Total 0          0      0       0           0      0     2      0     0     2     0     0     0     0            0      0      2      1   0             3            5
  Apprch %    0          0      0       0                  0   100      0     0           0     0     0     0                   0   66.7   33.3   0
     Total %  0          0      0       0           0      0    40      0     0    40     0     0     0     0            0      0     40     20   0           60




                                                                                                                                                      181
                                                                        Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                                      1830 Craig Park Court, Suite 209
                                                                          Saint Louis, MO 63146
N/S Street: Theresa Ave                                                             File Name       : Loc 3 - Theresa Ave & Washington Blvd PM
E/W Street: Washington Blvd                                                         Site Code       : 11313333
City/State: St. Louis, MO                                                           Start Date      : 2/25/2013
Job Number: 1-13                                                                    Page No         :1


                                                                         Groups Printed- Unshifted
                        Theresa Ave                            Washington Blvd                     Theresa Ave                           Washington Blvd
                        Southbound                                Westbound                        Northbound                              Eastbound
Start Time     Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds         App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds      App. Total   Int. Total
 04:30 PM        0       1      0       1           2      1    44     1     2      48      5      3     1     4            13       0    33     5    0            38         101
 04:45 PM        0       1      0       1           2      3    27     1     1      32      7      2     5     0            14       0    34     5    0            39          87
      Total      0       2      0       2           4      4    71     2     3      80     12      5     6     4            27       0    67   10     0            77         188

 05:00 PM        1       2      1       1          5       2     32       0     0    34      4      4      3      1         12       0     52      8     0        60          111
 05:15 PM        0       2      0       0          2       2     38       1     0    41      9      1      1      1         12       2     26      5     1        34           89
 Grand Total     1       6      1       3         11       8    141       3     3   155     25     10     10      6         51       2    145     23     1       171          388
 Apprch %      9.1    54.5    9.1    27.3                5.2     91     1.9   1.9           49   19.6   19.6   11.8                1.2   84.8   13.5   0.6
  Total %      0.3     1.5    0.3     0.8       2.8      2.1   36.3     0.8   0.8   39.9   6.4    2.6    2.6    1.5     13.1       0.5   37.4    5.9   0.3       44.1




                                                                                                                                                           182
                                                                         Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                                       1830 Craig Park Court, Suite 209
                                                                           Saint Louis, MO 63146
N/S Street: Theresa Ave                                                             File Name    : Loc 3 - Theresa Ave & Washington Blvd PM
E/W Street: Washington Blvd                                                         Site Code    : 11313333
City/State: St. Louis, MO                                                           Start Date   : 2/25/2013
Job Number: 1-13                                                                    Page No      :1


                                                                          Groups Printed- Bank 2
                        Theresa Ave                            Washington Blvd                   Theresa Ave                        Washington Blvd
                        Southbound                               Westbound                       Northbound                           Eastbound
Start Time     Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds      App. Total   Int. Total
  04:30 PM       0       0      0       0           0      0     1     0     0        1     0    0     0     0           0      0     1     0    0              1            2
  04:45 PM       0       0      0       0           0      0     1     0     0        1     0    0     0     0           0      0     0     0    0              0            1
       Total     0       0      0       0           0      0     2     0     0        2     0    0     0     0           0      0     1     0    0              1            3

  05:00 PM    0          0      0       0           0      1      0       0     0     1    0     0    0     0            0      0     0     0     0             0            1
*** BREAK ***
  Grand Total 0          0      0       0           0       1      2      0     0     3    0     0    0     0            0      0     1     0     0             1            4
  Apprch %    0          0      0       0                33.3   66.7      0     0          0     0    0     0                   0   100     0     0
     Total %  0          0      0       0           0      25     50      0     0    75    0     0    0     0            0      0    25     0     0           25




                                                                                                                                                      183
                                                                      Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                                    1830 Craig Park Court, Suite 209
                                                                        Saint Louis, MO 63146
N/S Street: Theresa Ave                                                          File Name     : Loc 3 - Theresa Ave & Washington Blvd PM
E/W Street: Washington Blvd                                                      Site Code     : 11313333
City/State: St. Louis, MO                                                        Start Date    : 2/25/2013
Job Number: 1-13                                                                 Page No       :1


                                                                         Groups Printed- Bank 1
                       Theresa Ave                            Washington Blvd                   Theresa Ave                       Washington Blvd
                       Southbound                               Westbound                       Northbound                          Eastbound
 Start Time   Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right   Peds     App. Total   Int. Total
*** BREAK ***
  04:45 PM      0       0      0       0           0      0     0      0     0     0     0     0     1     0           1      0     0     0      0             0            1
        Total   0       0      0       0           0      0     0      0     0     0     0     0     1     0           1      0     0     0      0             0            1

*** BREAK ***
 Grand Total    0       0      0       0           0      0     0      0     0     0     0     0     1     0           1      0     0     0      0             0            1
  Apprch %      0       0      0       0                  0     0      0     0           0     0   100     0                  0     0     0      0
   Total %      0       0      0       0           0      0     0      0     0     0     0     0   100     0      100         0     0     0      0             0




                                                                                                                                                     184
                                                                        Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                                      1830 Craig Park Court, Suite 209
                                                                          Saint Louis, MO 63146
N/S Street: Spring Ave                                                               File Name         : Loc 4 - Spring Ave & Washington Blvd AM
E/W Street: Washington Blvd                                                          Site Code         : 01130021
City/State: St. Louis, MO                                                            Start Date        : 2/26/2013
Job Number: 1-13                                                                     Page No           :1


                                                                         Groups Printed- Unshifted
                         Spring Ave                            Washington Blvd                      Spring Ave                         Washington Blvd
                         Southbound                               Westbound                        Northbound                            Eastbound
Start Time     Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds      App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
 07:30 AM        5     19      13       0       37         2    21     4     0      27      2     22      0    0         24      20    31     1    0            52          140
 07:45 AM       10     37      26       0       73         2    15     0     0      17      1     30      0    0         31      20    28     1    0            49          170
      Total     15     56      39       0      110         4    36     4     0      44      3     52      0    0         55      40    59     2    0           101          310

 08:00 AM       10      32     34       0       76         3     19       4    0    26      5     24      1   0        30         16     33     2    0          51          183
 08:15 AM       10      20     17       0       47         3     10       0    0    13      3     21      2   0        26         11     26     3    0          40          126
 Grand Total    35     108     90       0      233        10     65       8    0    83     11     97      3   0       111         67    118     7    0         192          619
 Apprch %       15    46.4   38.6       0                 12   78.3     9.6    0          9.9   87.4    2.7   0                 34.9   61.5   3.6    0
  Total %      5.7    17.4   14.5       0     37.6       1.6   10.5     1.3    0   13.4   1.8   15.7    0.5   0      17.9       10.8   19.1   1.1    0           31




                                                                                                                                                         185
                                                                       Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                                     1830 Craig Park Court, Suite 209
                                                                         Saint Louis, MO 63146
N/S Street: Spring Ave                                                             File Name         : Loc 4 - Spring Ave & Washington Blvd AM
E/W Street: Washington Blvd                                                        Site Code         : 01130021
City/State: St. Louis, MO                                                          Start Date        : 2/26/2013
Job Number: 1-13                                                                   Page No           :1


                                                                          Groups Printed- Bank 2
                         Spring Ave                            Washington Blvd                    Spring Ave                        Washington Blvd
                         Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                           Eastbound
Start Time     Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds      App. Total   Int. Total
 07:30 AM        0       1      0       0           1      0     0     0     0        0     0    0      0    0           0      1     1     0    0              2            3
 07:45 AM        0       2      0       0           2      0     0     0     0        0     0    1      0    0           1      0     2     0    0              2            5
      Total      0       3      0       0           3      0     0     0     0        0     0    1      0    0           1      1     3     0    0              4            8

 08:00 AM         1      1      0       0           2      0     0      0     0     0     0      0     0    0            0      0      1    0     0             1           3
 08:15 AM         0      4      0       0           4      0     0      0     0     0     0      2     0    0            2      0      0    0     0             0           6
 Grand Total      1      8      0       0           9      0     0      0     0     0     0      3     0    0            3      1      4    0     0             5          17
 Apprch %      11.1   88.9      0       0                  0     0      0     0           0    100     0    0                  20     80    0     0
  Total %       5.9   47.1      0       0     52.9         0     0      0     0     0     0   17.6     0    0      17.6       5.9   23.5    0     0         29.4




                                                                                                                                                      186
                                                                      Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                                    1830 Craig Park Court, Suite 209
                                                                        Saint Louis, MO 63146
N/S Street: Spring Ave                                                             File Name      : Loc 4 - Spring Ave & Washington Blvd AM
E/W Street: Washington Blvd                                                        Site Code      : 01130021
City/State: St. Louis, MO                                                          Start Date     : 2/26/2013
Job Number: 1-13                                                                   Page No        :1


                                                                        Groups Printed- Bank 1
                       Spring Ave                            Washington Blvd                    Spring Ave                        Washington Blvd
                       Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                           Eastbound
 Start Time  Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds      App. Total   Int. Total
  07:30 AM     0       1      1       0           2      0     1     0     0        1     0    0      0    0           0      0     0     0    0              0            3
*** BREAK ***
       Total   0       1      1       0           2      0     1       0     0      1   0     0     0     0            0      0     0     0     0             0            3

  08:00 AM     0       0      0       0           0      0      1      0     0      1   0     0      1    0            1      0      0    0     0             0            2
  08:15 AM     0       0      1       0           1      0      0      0     0      0   0     0      0    0            0      0      1    0     0             1            2
 Grand Total   0       1      2       0           3      0      2      0     0      2   0     0      1    0            1      0      1    0     0             1            7
  Apprch %     0    33.3   66.7       0                  0    100      0     0          0     0    100    0                   0    100    0     0
   Total %     0    14.3   28.6       0     42.9         0   28.6      0     0   28.6   0     0   14.3    0      14.3         0   14.3    0     0         14.3




                                                                                                                                                    187
                                                                         Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                                       1830 Craig Park Court, Suite 209
                                                                           Saint Louis, MO 63146
N/S Street: Spring Ave                                                                File Name          : Loc 4 - Spring Ave & Washington Blvd PM
E/W Street: Washington Blvd                                                           Site Code          : 01130023
City/State: St. Louis, MO                                                             Start Date         : 2/25/2013
Job Number: 1-13                                                                      Page No            :1


                                                                         Groups Printed- Unshifted
                         Spring Ave                            Washington Blvd                      Spring Ave                          Washington Blvd
                         Southbound                               Westbound                        Northbound                             Eastbound
Start Time     Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds       App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds       App. Total   Int. Total
 04:30 PM        2     29      11       0         42       4    30     3     0      37      4     16      4    0          24       9    26     6    0             41         144
 04:45 PM        3     15      16       0         34       4    21     3     0      28      1     13      2    0          16       6    26     3    0             35         113
      Total      5     44      27       0         76       8    51     6     0      65      5     29      6    0          40      15    52     9    0             76         257

 05:00 PM        6      20      9       0       35          7     42       3    0    52       2     13      1   0         16       11     31      3   0          45          148
 05:15 PM        3      16     19       0       38          3     37       5    0    45       3      8      5   0         16        4     29      6   0          39          138
 Grand Total    14      80     55       0      149         18    130      14    0   162      10     50     12   0         72       30    112     18   0         160          543
 Apprch %      9.4    53.7   36.9       0                11.1   80.2     8.6    0          13.9   69.4   16.7   0                18.8     70   11.2   0
  Total %      2.6    14.7   10.1       0     27.4        3.3   23.9     2.6    0   29.8    1.8    9.2    2.2   0     13.3        5.5   20.6    3.3   0         29.5




                                                                                                                                                          188
                                                                         Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                                       1830 Craig Park Court, Suite 209
                                                                           Saint Louis, MO 63146
N/S Street: Spring Ave                                                                File Name       : Loc 4 - Spring Ave & Washington Blvd PM
E/W Street: Washington Blvd                                                           Site Code       : 01130023
City/State: St. Louis, MO                                                             Start Date      : 2/25/2013
Job Number: 1-13                                                                      Page No         :1


                                                                          Groups Printed- Bank 2
                         Spring Ave                            Washington Blvd                    Spring Ave                        Washington Blvd
                         Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                           Eastbound
Start Time     Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds      App. Total   Int. Total
 04:30 PM        1       2      0       0           3      0     1     0     0        1     0    0      0    0           0      0     0     0    0              0           4
 04:45 PM        0       3      0       0           3      1     1     0     0        2     0    1      0    0           1      0     0     0    0              0           6
      Total      1       5      0       0           6      1     2     0     0        3     0    1      0    0           1      0     0     0    0              0          10

 05:00 PM        0       3      0       0          3        0      0      0     0      0   0      0     0   0            0      0     0     0     0             0           3
 05:15 PM        0       3      0       0          3        0      0      0     0      0   0      0     0   0            0      0     0     0     0             0           3
 Grand Total     1      11      0       0         12        1      2      0     0      3   0      1     0   0            1      0     0     0     0             0          16
 Apprch %      8.3    91.7      0       0                33.3   66.7      0     0          0   100      0   0                   0     0     0     0
  Total %      6.2    68.8      0       0         75      6.2   12.5      0     0   18.8   0    6.2     0   0        6.2        0     0     0     0             0




                                                                                                                                                      189
                                                                     Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                                   1830 Craig Park Court, Suite 209
                                                                       Saint Louis, MO 63146
N/S Street: Spring Ave                                                           File Name        : Loc 4 - Spring Ave & Washington Blvd PM
E/W Street: Washington Blvd                                                      Site Code        : 01130023
City/State: St. Louis, MO                                                        Start Date       : 2/25/2013
Job Number: 1-13                                                                 Page No          :1


                                                                        Groups Printed- Bank 1
                       Spring Ave                            Washington Blvd                    Spring Ave                       Washington Blvd
                       Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                          Eastbound
 Start Time  Left   Thru   Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right   Peds     App. Total   Int. Total
*** BREAK ***

  05:15 PM     0       0     1        0           1      0     0      0     0     0     0     0     0     0           0      0     0     0      0             0            1
 Grand Total   0       0     1        0           1      0     0      0     0     0     0     0     0     0           0      0     0     0      0             0            1
  Apprch %     0       0   100        0                  0     0      0     0           0     0     0     0                  0     0     0      0
   Total %     0       0   100        0      100         0     0      0     0     0     0     0     0     0           0      0     0     0      0             0




                                                                                                                                                    190
                                                                   Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                                 1830 Craig Park Court, Suite 209
                                                                     Saint Louis, MO 63146
N-S Street:Grand Boulevard                                                                                                            File Name : 14104003
E-W Street:Olive Street                                                                                                               Site Code : 14104003
City/State:St. Louis, Missouri                                                                                                        Start Date :
11/18/2004
Job  Number:#141-04
                                                                                                                                      Page No            :1


                                                                         Groups Printed- Unshifted
                     Grand Boulevard                              Olive Street                 Grand Boulevard                           Olive Street
                       Southbound                                 Westbound                       Northbound                             Eastbound
 Start Time    Left Thru    Right   Peds   App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left Thru      Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
 11:00 AM        0   147      2       3      152         19     15     16      4    54      5 105      4     0      114          4     7       11       3       25         345
 11:15 AM        0   124      5       2      131         15     10     18      4    47      3 105      3     5      116          5     7       10       3       25         319
 11:30 AM        0   116      6       1      123         14     13      8      9    44      6 113      4   16       139          4   12        16       1       33         339
 11:45 AM        0   130      6       3      139         19     16     27      8    70      5 124      7   12       148          3     6        9       4       22         379
     Total       0   517     19       9      545         67     54     69    25  215       19 447     18   33       517         16   32        46      11      105        1382

 12:00 PM        1   148      3       4      156         19     14     17     1     51     9   105    1     11      126          5      11     18       6       40         373
 12:15 PM        0   153      1       3      157         19     13     14     8     54     8   128   12      5      153          4      14     15       8       41         405
 12:30 PM        1   128      1       3      133         20     19     17    10     66     4   125    5     15      149          3      13     17       4       37         385
 12:45 PM        0   132     11       2      145         22     22     24     4     72     5   107    7      8      127          7       7      9       7       30         374
     Total       2   561     16      12      591         80     68     72    23    243    26   465   25     39      555         19      45     59      25      148        1537



 04:00 PM        0   190      1       0      191         31     17     19     0     67     6   127    2      1      136          7      10     15       4       36         430
 04:15 PM        0   149      1       2      152         16     27     12     2     57     7   116    6     12      141         14       5     24       2       45         395
 04:30 PM        0   177     13       0      190         25     20     13     3     61     1   145    2     11      159         14      16     23       1       54         464
 04:45 PM        0   159      1       2      162         41     25     14     3     83     9   142    2     14      167         14      16     20       4       54         466
     Total       0   675     16       4      695        113     89     58     8    268    23   530   12     38      603         49      47     82      11      189        1755

 05:00 PM        0   172      7       0      179         38     25     11     2     76    10   136    2     13      161          9      12     22       5       48         464
 05:15 PM        0   145      5       0      150         22     26     10     2     60     5   140    1     10      156          8      12     27       1       48         414
 05:30 PM        0   177      2       1      180         17     17     13     4     51     5   128    4      5      142         11       8     15       1       35         408
 05:45 PM        0   145      6       0      151         16      9     11     2     38     8   111    0      0      119          5      13     18       7       43         351
     Total       0   639     20       1      660         93     77     45    10    225    28   515    7     28      578         33      45     82      14      174        1637

 Grand Total     2   2392     71    26     2491         353    288    244    66    951     96 1957    62   138    2253         117     169    269     61       616        6311
 Apprch %      0.1    96     2.9      1                 37.1   30.3   25.7   6.9          4.3 86.9   2.8    6.1                  19    27.4   43.7    9.9
   Total %       0   37.9    1.1    0.4     39.5        5.6    4.6    3.9      1   15.1   1.5   31     1    2.2    35.7         1.9    2.7     4.3      1       9.8




                                                                                                                                                                 191
                                                                  Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                                1830 Craig Park Court, Suite 209
                                                                    Saint Louis, MO 63146
N-S Street:Grand Boulevard                                                                                                         File Name : 14104001
E-W Street:Grandel Sq/Samuel Shepard                                                                                               Site Code : 14104001
City/State:St. Louis, Missouri                                                                                                     Start Date :
11/18/2004
Job  Number:#141-04
                                                                                                                                   Page No            :1


                                                                      Groups Printed- Unshifted
                    Grand Boulevard                       Samuel Shepard Drive              Grand Boulevard                         Grandel Square
                      Southbound                               Westbound                       Northbound                             Eastbound
Start Time    Left Thru    Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds     App. Total   Left Thru     Right   Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
11:00 AM       6    144       0      2      152          5     0    5     0      10      4 108      7     9       128          0     2       3       1          6       296
11:15 AM       7    111       0      7      125          2     1    8     2      13      5 108      3     4       120          1     2       3       4         10       268
11:30 AM       4    116       1      2      123          8     0    9     0      17      4 125      8   14        151          1     1       5       3         10       301
11:45 AM       4    121       1      2      128          3     6   10     3      22      4 130      6     9       149          0     0       5       1          6       305
    Total     21    492       2     13      528         18     7   32     5      62     17 471     24   36        548          2     5      16       9         32      1170

12:00 PM       1    142       1      2      146          5      3      7     0     15    5   126    6     13      150          0      2      6       1          9       320
12:15 PM       6    112       0      5      123          8      1      8     1     18    3   116    6     10      135          0      1      5       1          7       283
12:30 PM       7    133       0      5      145         10      1     10     3     24    5   124    7     14      150          0      1      5       7         13       332
12:45 PM       4    148       2      5      159          4      1      5     0     10    4   124    8      5      141          3      3      2       0          8       318
    Total     18    535       3     17      573         27      6     30     4     67   17   490   27     42      576          3      7     18       9         37      1253



04:00 PM       5    158       0      2      165          8      4      8     1     21    5   147    4     11      167          2      1     12       1         16       369
04:15 PM       4    144       1      4      153          2      4      5     1     12   11   140    3      6      160          1      4     12       0         17       342
04:30 PM       3    155       2      5      165          6      4      5     0     15    6   163    2      3      174          2      0     15       2         19       373
04:45 PM       2    135       0      1      138         13      3      8     0     24    8   166    2      1      177          1      2     11       0         14       353
    Total     14    592       3     12      621         29     15     26     2     72   30   616   11     21      678          6      7     50       3         66      1437

05:00 PM       6    160       2      1      169          5      4     13     0     22    9   154    3      3      169          3      0      4       0          7       367
05:15 PM       3    114       0      1      118          6      1      5     0     12   11   148    1      2      162          1      1      6       0          8       300
05:30 PM       1    153       3      2      159          2      0      3     0      5    4   140    3      1      148          0      0      6       0          6       318
05:45 PM       2    144       1      1      148          1      2      4     0      7    6    99    1      5      111          0      0      1       1          2       268
    Total     12    571       6      5      594         14      7     25     0     46   30   541    8     11      590          4      1     17       1         23      1253

Grand Total    65   2190     14    47     2316          88     35    113    11    247    94 2118    70   110    2392          15     20    101      22      158        5113
Apprch %      2.8   94.6    0.6      2                 35.6   14.2   45.7   4.5         3.9 88.5   2.9    4.6                9.5    12.7   63.9    13.9
  Total %     1.3   42.8    0.3    0.9     45.3        1.7    0.7    2.2    0.2   4.8   1.8 41.4   1.4    2.2    46.8        0.3    0.4       2    0.4       3.1




                                                                                                                                                              192
                                                                 Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                               1830 Craig Park Court, Suite 209
                                                                   Saint Louis, MO 63146
N-S Street:Grand Boulevard                                                                                                          File Name : 14104002
E-W Street:Washington Boulevard                                                                                                     Site Code : 14104002
City/State:St. Louis, Missouri                                                                                                      Start Date :
11/18/2004
Job  Number:#141-04
                                                                                                                                    Page No          :1


                                                                      Groups Printed- Unshifted
                    Grand Boulevard                       Washington Boulevard              Grand Boulevard                      Washington Boulevard
                      Southbound                               Westbound                       Northbound                             Eastbound
Start Time    Left Thru    Right   Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds      App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds App. Total    Int. Total
11:00 AM      10    130      5       3      148          0   31     7     1      39      5 110      6     4        125          0   29    13     0      42        354
11:15 AM      11    115      4      11      141          0   28    16     3      47     15 110      8   10         143          0   20    14     3      37        368
11:30 AM      15    126      4       2      147          0   29    15     2      46     10 107     12   10         139          1   21    17     0      39        371
11:45 AM       9    123      3      10      145          0   31    22     3      56      6 139     10     8        163          0   27    16     2      45        409
    Total     45    494     16      26      581          0 119     60     9   188       36 466     36   32         570          1   97    60     5   163         1502

12:00 PM      18    137      2       5      162          2    37     18     1     58      6   103    10     6      125          1     28     10     1      40     385
12:15 PM       9    137      1      11      158          1    22      9     6     38     17   108     8     7      140          1     25     13     0      39     375
12:30 PM      14    128      8      16      166          0    20     16     8     44     12   120     7    19      158          2     17     22     2      43     411
12:45 PM       9    120      6       9      144          0    35     13     4     52     16   117    12     9      154          0     50     20     0      70     420
    Total     50    522     17      41      630          3   114     56    19    192     51   448    37    41      577          4    120     65     3     192    1591



04:00 PM      13    149      2       4      168          1    36     19     1     57      8   131     7     2      148          1     43     13     0      57     430
04:15 PM       6    134      2       6      148          0    24     19     0     43      8   119     6     3      136          0     40     13     2      55     382
04:30 PM      14    187      3       9      213          0    28     24     6     58     15   154     5     8      182          0     33     16     0      49     502
04:45 PM      11    153      4      14      182          0    51     27     0     78     19   142     9     1      171          0     32     15     0      47     478
    Total     44    623     11      33      711          1   139     89     7    236     50   546    27    14      637          1    148     57     2     208    1792

05:00 PM       9    153      4       5      171          1    46     30     0     77     17   133     2     0      152          0     33     23     0      56     456
05:15 PM      10    142      4       2      158          0    48     21     1     70     13   144     7     2      166          0     30     12     0      42     436
05:30 PM      17    158      6       0      181          0    28     22     5     55     16   102     8     0      126          1     35     16     1      53     415
05:45 PM       5    130      4       9      148          0    30      5     1     36     23    92     7     5      127          1     27     12     0      40     351
    Total     41    583     18      16      658          1   152     78     7    238     69   471    24     7      571          2    125     63     1     191    1658

Grand Total   180   2222     62    116    2580           5   524    283    42    854    206 1931    124    94    2355           8    490    245    11     754    6543
Apprch %        7   86.1    2.4     4.5                0.6   61.4   33.1   4.9          8.7   82    5.3      4                1.1      65   32.5   1.5
  Total %     2.8    34     0.9    1.8     39.4        0.1     8    4.3    0.6   13.1   3.1 29.5     1.9   1.4        36      0.1     7.5   3.7    0.2    11.5




                                                                                                                                                           193
                                 24-Hour Hose Count Summary (ADT) - Forest Park Parkway West of Grand
                                                              Eastbound
         Hour     11/5/2007   11/6/2007    11/7/2007   11/8/2007     11/9/2007    Weekday      XX/XX/XX   XX/XX/XX    7-Day
      Beginning    Monday     Tuesday     Wednesday    Thursday       Friday       Average     Saturday    Sunday    Average
      12:00 AM                                129         97                         113
       1:00 AM                                60          73                         67
       2:00 AM                                39          47                         43
       3:00 AM                                45          44                         45
       4:00 AM                                53          42                         48
       5:00 AM                                99          91                         95
       6:00 AM                                339         322                        331
       7:00 AM                                778         768                        773
       8:00 AM                                962         985                        974
       9:00 AM                                711         704                        708
      10:00 AM                   626          595                                    611
      11:00 AM                   684          728                                    706
      12:00 PM                   747          739                                    743
       1:00 PM                   710          775                                    743
       2:00 PM                   791          830                                    811
       3:00 PM                  1023         1047                                   1035
       4:00 PM                  1084         1053                                   1069
       5:00 PM                  1042         1052                                   1047
       6:00 PM                   641          623                                    632
       7:00 PM                   436          424                                    430
       8:00 PM                   310          341                                    326
       9:00 PM                   283          277                                    280
      10:00 PM                   200          261                                    231
      11:00 PM                   175          183                                    179
       TOTAL         0          8752        12143        3173            0          12040




194
                                 24-Hour Hose Count Summary (ADT) - Forest Park Parkway West of Grand
                                                             Westbound
         Hour     11/5/2007   11/6/2007    11/7/2007   11/8/2007    11/9/2007     Weekday     XX/XX/XX    XX/XX/XX    7-Day
      Beginning    Monday     Tuesday     Wednesday    Thursday      Friday       Average      Saturday    Sunday    Average
      12:00 AM                                89          99                         94
       1:00 AM                                50          68                         59
       2:00 AM                                36          38                         37
       3:00 AM                                50          52                         51
       4:00 AM                                79          101                        90
       5:00 AM                                184         197                        191
       6:00 AM                                577         595                        586
       7:00 AM                                898         931                        915
       8:00 AM                               1021         917                        969
       9:00 AM                                750         698                        724
      10:00 AM                   646          647                                    647
      11:00 AM                   704          659                                    682
      12:00 PM                   732          772                                    752
       1:00 PM                   676          684                                    680
       2:00 PM                   704          729                                    717
       3:00 PM                   789         1274                                   1032
       4:00 PM                   930          885                                    908
       5:00 PM                   989          999                                    994
       6:00 PM                   590          613                                    602
       7:00 PM                   352          383                                    368
       8:00 PM                   317          299                                    308
       9:00 PM                   254          270                                    262
      10:00 PM                   222          240                                    231
      11:00 PM                   160          175                                    168
       TOTAL         0          8065        12363        3696           0           12070




195
                                 24-Hour Hose Count Summary (ADT) - Forest Park Parkway West of Grand
                                                          TWO-WAY TOTAL
         Hour     11/5/2007   11/6/2007    11/7/2007   11/8/2007    11/9/2007     Weekday      XX/XX/XX   XX/XX/XX    7-Day
      Beginning    Monday     Tuesday     Wednesday    Thursday       Friday       Average     Saturday    Sunday    Average
      12:00 AM        0           0           218         196            0           207
       1:00 AM        0           0           110         141            0           126
       2:00 AM        0           0           75           85            0           80
       3:00 AM        0           0           95           96            0           96
       4:00 AM        0           0           132         143            0           138
       5:00 AM        0           0           283         288            0           286
       6:00 AM        0           0           916         917            0           917
       7:00 AM        0           0          1676        1699            0          1688
       8:00 AM        0           0          1983        1902            0          1943
       9:00 AM        0           0          1461        1402            0          1432
      10:00 AM        0         1272         1242          0             0          1258
      11:00 AM        0         1388         1387          0             0          1388
      12:00 PM        0         1479         1511          0             0          1495
       1:00 PM        0         1386         1459          0             0          1423
       2:00 PM        0         1495         1559          0             0          1528
       3:00 PM        0         1812         2321          0             0          2067
       4:00 PM        0         2014         1938          0             0          1977
       5:00 PM        0         2031         2051          0             0          2041
       6:00 PM        0         1231         1236          0             0          1234
       7:00 PM        0          788          807          0             0           798
       8:00 PM        0          627          640          0             0           634
       9:00 PM        0          537          547          0             0           542
      10:00 PM        0          422          501          0             0           462
      11:00 PM        0          335          391          0             0           347
       TOTAL          0        16817        24539        6869            0          24110




196
Site Name                 Grand Boulevard (North Of Lindell Boulevard) Northbound
Jurisdiction              St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type                Volume (ch1)
Location Code             610320
Direction                 North
Date                      11/11/2004
Real Time                 13:23
Start Date                11/11/2004
Start Time                14:00
Sample Time               00:15
Operator Number           39
Machine Number            10

Thursday, November 11, 2004

                     Channel 1                                Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                      HR                                HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00         Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00
  01
  02
  03
  04
  05
  06
  07
  08
  09
  10
  11
  12
  13
  14          442   107      99    117    119
  15          509   120     113    133    143
  16          456   113     115    119    109
  17          473   149     113    104    107
  18          568   123     149    156    140
  19          860   207     246    247    160
  20          250    72      64     68     46
  21          216    61      52     59     44
  22          213    57      62     55     39
  23          193    39      54     56     44
             4180 Total                                    Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start              19:00
         PM Peak Hour Total                860
         PM Peak Hour Factor             87.04 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                       197
Site Name               Grand Boulevard (North Of Lindell Boulevard) Northbound
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           610320
Direction               North
Date                    11/11/2004
Real Time               13:23
Start Date              11/11/2004
Start Time              14:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         39
Machine Number          10

Friday, November 12, 2004

                     Channel 1                              Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                    HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00          102    40    17    30    15
  01           53    18    12    14     9
  02           55    15    16    12    12
  03           35       6  13    11     5
  04           26       7   4    10     5
  05          138    11    26    45    56
  06          395    59    67   115   154
  07          603   163   153   143   144
  08          588   161   130   142   155
  09          541   147   116   136   142
  10          540   138   123   131   148
  11          581   140   150   155   136
  12          602   148   152   154   148
  13          606   172   135   136   163
  14          671   149   171   169   182
  15          612   142   175   146   149
  16          583   158   149   143   133
  17          545   129   134   142   140
  18          712   149   180   164   219
  19         1089   249   285   281   274
  20          389   130    88    88    83
  21          316    77   104    78    57
  22          296    69    74    80    73
  23          304    65    73    87    79
            10382 Total                                  Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start           06:45
         AM Peak Hour Total             613
         AM Peak Hour Factor          94.02 %
         PM Peak Hour Start           19:00
         PM Peak Hour Total            1089
         PM Peak Hour Factor          95.53 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                     198
Site Name               Grand Boulevard (North Of Lindell Boulevard) Northbound
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           610320
Direction               North
Date                    11/11/2004
Real Time               13:23
Start Date              11/11/2004
Start Time              14:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         39
Machine Number          10

Saturday, November 13, 2004

                     Channel 1                              Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                    HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00          221    71    51    47    52
  01          132    32    41    36    23
  02           84    21    32    17    14
  03           57    16    15    14    12
  04           42    15     5    12    10
  05           51       7  11    12    21
  06          109    18    13    29    49
  07          189    47    44    38    60
  08          271    51    84    82    54
  09          314    69    68    78    99
  10          372   101    75    96   100
  11          458   112   117   109   120
  12          630   155   158   158   159
  13         1098   253   269   296   280
  14          462   130   108    98   126
  15          468   119   117   112   120
  16          472   111   110   130   121
  17          413    90    87   108   128
  18          657   164   162   150   181
  19         1036   229   281   265   261
  20          444   143   108    99    94
  21          294    74    65    67    88
  22          318    69    89    79    81
  23          239    67    57    61    54
             8831 Total                                  Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start           11:00
         AM Peak Hour Total             458
         AM Peak Hour Factor          95.42 %
         PM Peak Hour Start           13:00
         PM Peak Hour Total            1098
         PM Peak Hour Factor          92.74 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                     199
Site Name               Grand Boulevard (North Of Lindell Boulevard) Northbound
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           610320
Direction               North
Date                    11/11/2004
Real Time               13:23
Start Date              11/11/2004
Start Time              14:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         39
Machine Number          10

Sunday, November 14, 2004

                     Channel 1                              Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                    HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00          199    60    58    45    36
  01          148    36    35    40    37
  02          102    27    26    26    23
  03           63    22    18    14     9
  04           33    10    11     5     7
  05           52    10    11    14    17
  06           88    12    23    23    30
  07          124    27    35    38    24
  08          155    42    35    33    45
  09          227    55    57    61    54
  10          375    73    93    85   124
  11          358   102    83    83    90
  12          485   116    99   126   144
  13          976   229   273   233   241
  14          799   206   224   218   151
  15          438   106   108   103   121
  16          381    98   104    82    97
  17          465    95   120   118   132
  18          677   148   127   182   220
  19          559   228   156    90    85
  20          246    61    66    64    55
  21          212    59    54    60    39
  22          188    55    54    44    35
  23          173    44    45    50    34
             7523 Total                                  Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start           10:15
         AM Peak Hour Total             404
         AM Peak Hour Factor          81.45 %
         PM Peak Hour Start           13:00
         PM Peak Hour Total             976
         PM Peak Hour Factor          89.38 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                     200
Site Name               Grand Boulevard (North Of Lindell Boulevard) Northbound
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           610320
Direction               North
Date                    11/11/2004
Real Time               13:23
Start Date              11/11/2004
Start Time              14:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         39
Machine Number          10

Monday, November 15, 2004

                     Channel 1                              Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                    HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00           91    29    29    16    17
  01           57    19    16    12    10
  02           47    15    15     6    11
  03           26       5   7     7     7
  04           26       0   7     8    11
  05          126    14    25    39    48
  06          402    65    69   105   163
  07          655   142   174   168   171
  08          616   161   160   135   160
  09          538   139   136   133   130
  10          539   125   130   140   144
  11          527   120   140   127   140
  12          600   135   151   175   139
  13          620   169   144   165   142
  14          548   148   129   142   129
  15          584   137   139   148   160
  16          567   147   143   142   135
  17          504   139   128   128   109
  18          386   103    94    97    92
  19          277    80    66    62    69
  20          252    77    60    67    48
  21          207    59    53    48    47
  22          177    46    44    51    36
  23          172    41    55    38    38
             8544 Total                                  Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start           07:15
         AM Peak Hour Total             674
         AM Peak Hour Factor          96.84 %
         PM Peak Hour Start           12:15
         PM Peak Hour Total             634
         PM Peak Hour Factor          90.57 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                     201
Site Name               Grand Boulevard (North Of Lindell Boulevard) Northbound
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           610320
Direction               North
Date                    11/11/2004
Real Time               13:23
Start Date              11/11/2004
Start Time              14:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         39
Machine Number          10

Tuesday, November 16, 2004

                     Channel 1                              Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                    HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00          104    43    20    23    18
  01           44    18    10     7     9
  02           41    15     9    10     7
  03           32       6  10     9     7
  04           23       4   2    10     7
  05          126    13    24    29    60
  06          409    66    70   111   162
  07          677   163   183   156   175
  08          638   188   141   165   144
  09          620   166   144   155   155
  10          534   136   134   129   135
  11          517   146   121   123   127
  12          569   144   148   157   120
  13          573   155   133   136   149
  14          560   117   142   144   157
  15          558   143   127   145   143
  16          513   129   126   133   125
  17          533   128   134   135   136
  18          609   143   157   157   152
  19          875   191   242   265   177
  20          274    78    78    61    57
  21          257    68    74    54    61
  22          201    55    47    51    48
  23          172    46    42    56    28
             9459 Total                                  Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start           07:15
         AM Peak Hour Total             702
         AM Peak Hour Factor          93.35 %
         PM Peak Hour Start           19:00
         PM Peak Hour Total             875
         PM Peak Hour Factor          82.55 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                     202
Site Name               Grand Boulevard (North Of Lindell Boulevard) Northbound
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           610320
Direction               North
Date                    11/11/2004
Real Time               13:23
Start Date              11/11/2004
Start Time              14:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         39
Machine Number          10

Wednesday, November 17, 2004

                     Channel 1                              Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                    HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00           93    30    23    22    18
  01           47    18     9    11     9
  02           49    12     8    17    12
  03           31       8   7     7     9
  04           18       4   5     4     5
  05          127    15    21    36    55
  06          401    56    64   118   163
  07          689   157   171   177   184
  08          597   144   121   159   173
  09          532   145   149   106   132
  10          532   134   132   131   135
  11          533   132   132   125   144
  12          564   143   143   149   129
  13          528   137   142   116   133
  14          596   134   163   151   148
  15          596   142   158   143   153
  16          585   146   135   153   151
  17          587   148   153   137   149
  18          653   134   178   167   174
  19          890   209   267   244   170
  20          331    95    69   106    61
  21          243    72    55    49    67
  22          204    60    47    54    43
  23          200    48    59    58    35
             9626 Total                                  Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start           07:00
         AM Peak Hour Total             689
         AM Peak Hour Factor          93.61 %
         PM Peak Hour Start           18:45
         PM Peak Hour Total             894
         PM Peak Hour Factor          83.71 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                     203
Site Name               Grand Boulevard (North Of Lindell Boulevard) Northbound
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           610320
Direction               North
Date                    11/11/2004
Real Time               13:23
Start Date              11/11/2004
Start Time              14:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         39
Machine Number          10

Thursday, November 18, 2004

                     Channel 1                              Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                    HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00          107    28    36    22    21
  01           61    15    16    18    12
  02           39    10    11     7    11
  03           34    10    11     9     4
  04           32       8  10     8     6
  05          123    18    21    27    57
  06          354    57    71    93   133
  07          579   126   151   146   156
  08          527   155   123   119   130
  09          511   118   111   120   162
  10          520   134   109   140   137
  11          520   108   133   149   130
  12          564   127   159   140   138
  13          542   147   141   118   136
  14          508   127   115   115   151
  15          562   131   144   151   136
  16          571   131   133   152   155
  17          560   157   136   140   127
  18          602   139   163   151   149
  19          846   156   218   252   220
  20          307    95    86    72    54
  21          229    51    66    39    73
  22          236    70    68    57    41
  23          190    57    59    36    38
             9124 Total                                  Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start           07:15
         AM Peak Hour Total             608
         AM Peak Hour Factor          97.44 %
         PM Peak Hour Start           19:00
         PM Peak Hour Total             846
         PM Peak Hour Factor          83.93 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                     204
Site Name                Grand Boulevard (North Of Lindell Boulevard) Northbound
Jurisdiction             St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type               Volume (ch1)
Location Code            610320
Direction                North
Date                     11/11/2004
Real Time                13:23
Start Date               11/11/2004
Start Time               14:00
Sample Time              00:15
Operator Number          39
Machine Number           10

Friday, November 19, 2004

                     Channel 1                               Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                     HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00         Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00          135    41    35    34    25
  01           62    20    14    15    13
  02           40     9    10    10    11
  03           42     8     7    18     9
  04           33     8     9     5    11
  05          130    14    27    35    54
  06          346    55    67    93   131
  07          560   112   150   140   158
  08          532   138   120   144   130
  09          257   125   132
  10
  11
  12
  13
  14
  15
  16
  17
  18
  19
  20
  21
  22
  23
            2137 Total                                    Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start            07:15
         AM Peak Hour Total              586
         AM Peak Hour Factor           92.72 %
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                      205
                                                                                                               CBB#141-04
Site Name                 Grand Boulevard (South Of Delmar Boulevard) Northbound
Jurisdiction              St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type                Volume (ch1)
Location Code             517490
Direction                 North
Date                      11/11/2004
Real Time                 12:46
Start Date                11/11/2004
Start Time                13:00
Sample Time               00:15
Operator Number           39
Machine Number            17

Thursday, November 11, 2004

                     Channel 1                               Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                     HR                                HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00
  01
  02
  03
  04
  05
  06
  07
  08
  09
  10
  11
  12
  13          397   112      88    95    102
  14          446   103     101   118    124
  15          519   127     125   124    143
  16          507   136     119   135    117
  17          449   150     115    99     85
  18          358    81      84   107     86
  19          268    81      72    57     58
  20          259    70      66    69     54
  21          215    55      59    63     38
  22          239    62      48    75     54
  23          184    40      49    53     42
             3841 Total                                   Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start             15:45
         PM Peak Hour Total               533
         PM Peak Hour Factor            93.18 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                      206
Site Name               Grand Boulevard (South Of Delmar Boulevard) Northbound
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           517490
Direction               North
Date                    11/11/2004
Real Time               12:46
Start Date              11/11/2004
Start Time              13:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         39
Machine Number          17

Friday, November 12, 2004

                     Channel 1                             Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                   HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00       Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00          109    41    23    26    19
  01           53    13    13    16    11
  02           54    12    17    12    13
  03           43       4  17    14     8
  04           28       7   3     8    10
  05          130    14    22    45    49
  06          309    54    52    78   125
  07          484   129   136   118   101
  08          480   125   119   101   135
  09          489   130   102   126   131
  10          513   131   134   121   127
  11          543   131   136   154   122
  12          627   148   155   165   159
  13          624   166   140   145   173
  14          655   157   160   167   171
  15          655   139   183   156   177
  16          666   159   169   176   162
  17          591   173   170   132   116
  18          475   124   127    88   136
  19          455   115   117   111   112
  20          377   113    92    81    91
  21          332    79    90    95    68
  22          328    68    71    99    90
  23          275    64    65    80    66
             9295 Total                                 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          10:45
         AM Peak Hour Total            548
         AM Peak Hour Factor         88.96 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          15:45
         PM Peak Hour Total            681
         PM Peak Hour Factor         96.19 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                    207
Site Name               Grand Boulevard (South Of Delmar Boulevard) Northbound
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           517490
Direction               North
Date                    11/11/2004
Real Time               12:46
Start Date              11/11/2004
Start Time              13:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         39
Machine Number          17

Saturday, November 13, 2004

                     Channel 1                             Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                   HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00       Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00          214    73    47    53    41
  01          125    30    34    38    23
  02          100    28    33    24    15
  03           59    15    18    15    11
  04           42    13     7    14     8
  05           59       9  10    17    23
  06           93    18    15    23    37
  07          181    45    41    39    56
  08          217    46    58    60    53
  09          274    64    68    62    80
  10          339    85    80    88    86
  11          379    84   109    88    98
  12          439   117   107   111   104
  13          405    97    93    95   120
  14          449   109   106   102   132
  15          460   118   116   111   115
  16          425   104    83   133   105
  17          352    98    80    79    95
  18          362    93    87    90    92
  19          370    95   101    88    86
  20          351    95    95    86    75
  21          290    53    73    70    94
  22          306    69    78    81    78
  23          241    61    58    59    63
             6532 Total                                 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          11:00
         AM Peak Hour Total            379
         AM Peak Hour Factor         86.93 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          14:45
         PM Peak Hour Total            477
         PM Peak Hour Factor         90.34 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                    208
Site Name               Grand Boulevard (South Of Delmar Boulevard) Northbound
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           517490
Direction               North
Date                    11/11/2004
Real Time               12:46
Start Date              11/11/2004
Start Time              13:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         39
Machine Number          17

Sunday, November 14, 2004

                     Channel 1                             Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                   HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00       Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00          194    56    42    54    42
  01          124    31    31    30    32
  02          146    35    33    49    29
  03           76    25    18    13    20
  04           37       7  12     8    10
  05           53    10    12    12    19
  06           89    14    27    19    29
  07          127    28    39    39    21
  08          146    46    34    30    36
  09          183    42    49    41    51
  10          318    49    75    77   117
  11          295    88    71    70    66
  12          316    67    65    87    97
  13          386   107    88    88   103
  14          577   141   162   156   118
  15          436    97   117   114   108
  16          420    86    99   109   126
  17          321    76    78    79    88
  18          336   114   103    65    54
  19          295    60    67    85    83
  20          264    61    66    75    62
  21          249    53    53    90    53
  22          213    77    48    48    40
  23          164    42    43    48    31
             5765 Total                                 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          10:15
         AM Peak Hour Total            357
         AM Peak Hour Factor         76.28 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          14:00
         PM Peak Hour Total            577
         PM Peak Hour Factor         89.04 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                    209
Site Name               Grand Boulevard (South Of Delmar Boulevard) Northbound
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           517490
Direction               North
Date                    11/11/2004
Real Time               12:46
Start Date              11/11/2004
Start Time              13:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         39
Machine Number          17

Monday, November 15, 2004

                     Channel 1                             Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                   HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00       Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00           90    27    30    13    20
  01           58    22    17    10     9
  02           47    18    14     7     8
  03           27       7   6     8     6
  04           28       1   9     8    10
  05          115    17    24    28    46
  06          331    69    53    82   127
  07          512   132   124   131   125
  08          513   132   119   127   135
  09          454   131   103   120   100
  10          529   116   152   143   118
  11          523   124   124   127   148
  12          597   157   143   151   146
  13          591   147   139   151   154
  14          568   161   118   163   126
  15          646   148   145   159   194
  16          663   181   146   171   165
  17          566   174   155   129   108
  18          372    93    96    88    95
  19          270    77    66    62    65
  20          259    67    69    68    55
  21          236    64    59    67    46
  22          183    44    46    54    39
  23          182    43    50    44    45
             8360 Total                                 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          10:15
         AM Peak Hour Total            537
         AM Peak Hour Factor         88.32 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          15:45
         PM Peak Hour Total            692
         PM Peak Hour Factor         89.18 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                    210
Site Name               Grand Boulevard (South Of Delmar Boulevard) Northbound
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           517490
Direction               North
Date                    11/11/2004
Real Time               12:46
Start Date              11/11/2004
Start Time              13:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         39
Machine Number          17

Tuesday, November 16, 2004

                     Channel 1                             Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                   HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00       Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00          117    42    28    26    21
  01           46    16    12     7    11
  02           38    16     6     7     9
  03           33       4  14     6     9
  04           22       4   2     9     7
  05          115    15    25    24    51
  06          347    66    51    91   139
  07          507   134   132   113   128
  08          490   118   114   126   132
  09          509   126   114   149   120
  10          522   123   143   138   118
  11          471   134   108   112   117
  12          589   133   152   161   143
  13          547   145   131   138   133
  14          553   121   133   149   150
  15          599   159   132   151   157
  16          628   159   152   156   161
  17          567   177   158   121   111
  18          379    95    99    82   103
  19          351    79    85    92    95
  20          288    68    76    72    72
  21          328    86    89    85    68
  22          234    53    48    69    64
  23          175    49    43    53    30
             8455 Total                                 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          09:30
         AM Peak Hour Total            535
         AM Peak Hour Factor         89.77 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          16:30
         PM Peak Hour Total            652
         PM Peak Hour Factor         92.09 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                    211
Site Name               Grand Boulevard (South Of Delmar Boulevard) Northbound
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           517490
Direction               North
Date                    11/11/2004
Real Time               12:46
Start Date              11/11/2004
Start Time              13:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         39
Machine Number          17

Wednesday, November 17, 2004

                     Channel 1                             Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                   HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00       Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00           95    27    25    18    25
  01           54    15    13    15    11
  02           40    11     7    11    11
  03           32       6  10     8     8
  04           26       5   6     9     6
  05          115    16    23    29    47
  06          314    51    39    92   132
  07          512   112   136   130   134
  08          477   109   108   108   152
  09          462   135   120    88   119
  10          505   137   125   116   127
  11          495   128   117   122   128
  12          527   135   132   152   108
  13          528   134   136   119   139
  14          602   153   172   127   150
  15          680   161   164   181   174
  16          683   157   155   184   187
  17          587   177   179   124   107
  18          410    96    94   112   108
  19          341    95    81    78    87
  20          366    86    76   118    86
  21          304    89    75    65    75
  22          258    64    55    73    66
  23          217    55    59    63    40
             8630 Total                                 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          08:30
         AM Peak Hour Total            515
         AM Peak Hour Factor         84.70 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          16:30
         PM Peak Hour Total            727
         PM Peak Hour Factor         97.19 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                    212
Site Name               Grand Boulevard (South Of Delmar Boulevard) Northbound
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           517490
Direction               North
Date                    11/11/2004
Real Time               12:46
Start Date              11/11/2004
Start Time              13:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         39
Machine Number          17

Thursday, November 18, 2004

                     Channel 1                             Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                   HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00       Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00           99    29    31    26    13
  01           63    20    15    17    11
  02           46    11    18     9     8
  03           44    14    17     8     5
  04           30       6   8    10     6
  05          109    20    22    22    45
  06          277    56    57    73    91
  07          409    96   114    90   109
  08          444   137   103    97   107
  09          433    83    98   107   145
  10          493   123   117   131   122
  11          523   123   124   139   137
  12          530   133   131   132   134
  13          547   141   142   133   131
  14          505   123   122   115   145
  15          635   144   149   170   172
  16          639   154   147   172   166
  17          560   172   151   137   100
  18          385    93   113    93    86
  19          289    86    72    57    74
  20          310    83    85    79    63
  21          253    70    76    46    61
  22          280    72    64    82    62
  23          196    51    57    47    41
             8099 Total                                 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          11:00
         AM Peak Hour Total            523
         AM Peak Hour Factor         94.06 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          16:30
         PM Peak Hour Total            661
         PM Peak Hour Factor         96.08 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                    213
Site Name                Grand Boulevard (South Of Delmar Boulevard) Northbound
Jurisdiction             St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type               Volume (ch1)
Location Code            517490
Direction                North
Date                     11/11/2004
Real Time                12:46
Start Date               11/11/2004
Start Time               13:00
Sample Time              00:15
Operator Number          39
Machine Number           17

Friday, November 19, 2004

                     Channel 1                              Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                    HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00          144    45    29    42    28
  01           63    20    11    19    13
  02           41    10    10     8    13
  03           41     6     7    15    13
  04           34     6     8     7    13
  05          132    17    23    43    49
  06          273    54    56    60   103
  07          411    90   118    95   108
  08          446   106   102   106   132
  09          332    98   126   108
  10
  11
  12
  13
  14
  15
  16
  17
  18
  19
  20
  21
  22
  23
            1917 Total                                   Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start           08:45
         AM Peak Hour Total             464
         AM Peak Hour Factor          87.88 %
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                     214
                                                                                                              CBB#141-04
Site Name                 Grand Boulevard (North Of Lindell Boulevard) Southbound
Jurisdiction              St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type                Volume (ch1)
Location Code             619270
Direction                 South
Date                      11/11/2004
Real Time                 13:09
Start Date                11/11/2004
Start Time                14:00
Sample Time               00:15
Operator Number           39
Machine Number            19

Thursday, November 11, 2004

                     Channel 1                                Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                      HR                                HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00         Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00
  01
  02
  03
  04
  05
  06
  07
  08
  09
  10
  11
  12
  13
  14          635   137     187    160    151
  15          655   172     151    180    152
  16          611   185     141    149    136
  17          587   149     151    147    140
  18          445   111      99    118    117
  19          354    94      85     94     81
  20          359   100      79     92     88
  21          485    91     164    108    122
  22          608    92     118    253    145
  23          196    53      44     50     49
             4935 Total                                    Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start              14:15
         PM Peak Hour Total                670
         PM Peak Hour Factor             89.57 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                       215
Site Name               Grand Boulevard (North Of Lindell Boulevard) Southbound
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           619270
Direction               South
Date                    11/11/2004
Real Time               13:09
Start Date              11/11/2004
Start Time              14:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         39
Machine Number          19

Friday, November 12, 2004

                     Channel 1                              Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                    HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00          155    50    45    44    16
  01           66    17    12    19    18
  02           60    10    26    13    11
  03           39    10     9    13     7
  04           42       5   9    13    15
  05          128    22    21    27    58
  06          337    50    82    91   114
  07          501    96   138   121   146
  08          585   142   144   144   155
  09          556   121   126   149   160
  10          632   145   141   160   186
  11          764   176   190   190   208
  12          788   182   212   199   195
  13          759   201   215   154   189
  14          839   207   216   196   220
  15          890   223   231   223   213
  16          940   234   226   261   219
  17          702   213   170   151   168
  18          539   146   126   137   130
  19          483   121   138   110   114
  20          421   109   109    87   116
  21          729   108   128   182   311
  22          821   157   159   268   237
  23          334    85    84    73    92
            12110 Total                                  Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start           11:00
         AM Peak Hour Total             764
         AM Peak Hour Factor          91.83 %
         PM Peak Hour Start           16:00
         PM Peak Hour Total             940
         PM Peak Hour Factor          90.04 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                     216
Site Name               Grand Boulevard (North Of Lindell Boulevard) Southbound
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           619270
Direction               South
Date                    11/11/2004
Real Time               13:09
Start Date              11/11/2004
Start Time              14:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         39
Machine Number          19

Saturday, November 13, 2004

                     Channel 1                              Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                    HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00          234    76    82    43    33
  01          191    61    53    39    38
  02           93    25    22    28    18
  03           85    29    19    22    15
  04           49    15    11    13    10
  05           79    12    18    21    28
  06          123    21    43    26    33
  07          180    40    36    57    47
  08          275    60    73    68    74
  09          313    74    67    85    87
  10          438   111   107   121    99
  11          499   122   112   130   135
  12          555   139   132   157   127
  13          519   140   122   115   142
  14          540   143   147   113   137
  15          553   140   121   144   148
  16          810   148   155   264   243
  17          533   170   137   119   107
  18          436   117   116   117    86
  19          408   126    82    94   106
  20          343    81   103    81    78
  21          635   101    84   200   250
  22          775   123   133   273   246
  23          435   157    76   101   101
             9101 Total                                  Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start           11:00
         AM Peak Hour Total             499
         AM Peak Hour Factor          92.41 %
         PM Peak Hour Start           16:15
         PM Peak Hour Total             832
         PM Peak Hour Factor          78.79 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                     217
Site Name               Grand Boulevard (North Of Lindell Boulevard) Southbound
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           619270
Direction               South
Date                    11/11/2004
Real Time               13:09
Start Date              11/11/2004
Start Time              14:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         39
Machine Number          19

Sunday, November 14, 2004

                     Channel 1                              Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                    HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00          337    95    92    85    65
  01          230    57    57    60    56
  02          151    41    37    37    36
  03          105    46    23    16    20
  04           51    17    10    10    14
  05           55    11     7    15    22
  06           97    18    25    34    20
  07          107    21    31    23    32
  08          142    32    33    36    41
  09          203    42    38    52    71
  10          310    71    77    74    88
  11          364    72    97    97    98
  12          427   103    92   109   123
  13          571   141   141   155   134
  14          447   104   119   105   119
  15          611   108   121   208   174
  16          784   152   121   272   239
  17          587   236   125   109   117
  18          436   119   121    98    98
  19          354    90   104    77    83
  20          306    83    80    71    72
  21          439   108    89   130   112
  22          559   270   187    63    39
  23          164    47    31    52    34
             7837 Total                                  Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start           11:00
         AM Peak Hour Total             364
         AM Peak Hour Factor          92.86 %
         PM Peak Hour Start           16:30
         PM Peak Hour Total             872
         PM Peak Hour Factor          80.15 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                     218
Site Name               Grand Boulevard (North Of Lindell Boulevard) Southbound
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           619270
Direction               South
Date                    11/11/2004
Real Time               13:09
Start Date              11/11/2004
Start Time              14:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         39
Machine Number          19

Monday, November 15, 2004

                     Channel 1                              Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                    HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00          124    50    38    21    15
  01           47    15    14    11     7
  02           46    11    22    11     2
  03           43    10     9    16     8
  04           36       5   6     9    16
  05          122    15    27    29    51
  06          329    50    64    86   129
  07          536   112   148   132   144
  08          629   157   134   174   164
  09          569   130   142   153   144
  10          633   156   164   157   156
  11          695   166   163   166   200
  12          702   195   167   187   153
  13          723   199   166   179   179
  14          807   208   205   193   201
  15          901   232   201   244   224
  16          917   230   244   222   221
  17          729   235   178   175   141
  18          466   125   126   114   101
  19          349   101    84    92    72
  20          334    85    74    88    87
  21          335    89    85    82    79
  22          244    61    69    55    59
  23          243    59    88    58    38
            10559 Total                                  Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start           11:00
         AM Peak Hour Total             695
         AM Peak Hour Factor          86.88 %
         PM Peak Hour Start           15:30
         PM Peak Hour Total             942
         PM Peak Hour Factor          96.52 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                     219
Site Name               Grand Boulevard (North Of Lindell Boulevard) Southbound
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           619270
Direction               South
Date                    11/11/2004
Real Time               13:09
Start Date              11/11/2004
Start Time              14:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         39
Machine Number          19

Tuesday, November 16, 2004

                     Channel 1                              Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                    HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00          128    44    29    22    33
  01           78    22    16    24    16
  02           50    16    11    10    13
  03           34       8   4    13     9
  04           40       3  14     7    16
  05          124    25    24    33    42
  06          345    61    68    93   123
  07          533   110   124   146   153
  08          560   135   141   155   129
  09          568   159   128   148   133
  10          669   145   144   195   185
  11          699   178   166   168   187
  12          750   223   176   165   186
  13          732   196   182   181   173
  14          733   188   183   186   176
  15          832   198   191   236   207
  16          879   229   196   227   227
  17          759   211   175   207   166
  18          494   152   125   110   107
  19          357   110    85    78    84
  20          364    96    93    89    86
  21          577   196   131   135   115
  22          633   109   102   274   148
  23          190    46    46    48    50
            11128 Total                                  Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start           10:30
         AM Peak Hour Total             724
         AM Peak Hour Factor          92.82 %
         PM Peak Hour Start           16:00
         PM Peak Hour Total             879
         PM Peak Hour Factor          95.96 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                     220
Site Name               Grand Boulevard (North Of Lindell Boulevard) Southbound
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           619270
Direction               South
Date                    11/11/2004
Real Time               13:09
Start Date              11/11/2004
Start Time              14:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         39
Machine Number          19

Wednesday, November 17, 2004

                     Channel 1                              Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                    HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00          129    39    35    31    24
  01           73    25    22    13    13
  02           50       9  14    13    14
  03           39    11     8    11     9
  04           40       9  11     4    16
  05          134    18    22    40    54
  06          335    62    63    94   116
  07          547    99   129   155   164
  08          597   170   142   137   148
  09          558   151   141   137   129
  10          673   160   171   183   159
  11          655   127   157   176   195
  12          710   164   181   200   165
  13          716   196   168   185   167
  14          789   190   220   182   197
  15          894   213   232   234   215
  16          961   237   218   242   264
  17          816   226   222   190   178
  18          519   160   120   121   118
  19          430   118    88   113   111
  20          500   122   117   152   109
  21          495   128   169    96   102
  22          669   129    96   253   191
  23          215    64    48    46    57
            11544 Total                                  Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start           10:00
         AM Peak Hour Total             673
         AM Peak Hour Factor          91.94 %
         PM Peak Hour Start           16:00
         PM Peak Hour Total             961
         PM Peak Hour Factor          91.00 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                     221
Site Name               Grand Boulevard (North Of Lindell Boulevard) Southbound
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           619270
Direction               South
Date                    11/11/2004
Real Time               13:09
Start Date              11/11/2004
Start Time              14:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         39
Machine Number          19

Thursday, November 18, 2004

                     Channel 1                              Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                    HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00          166    58    40    36    32
  01           82    19    24    16    23
  02           69    11    19    18    21
  03           52    21     9    15     7
  04           42       8  14     9    11
  05          118    13    26    29    50
  06          303    55    64    95    89
  07          460    82   112   112   154
  08          507   143   123   119   122
  09          556   155   124   140   137
  10          587   148   153   142   144
  11          644   166   151   156   171
  12          698   188   169   177   164
  13          714   184   188   184   158
  14          705   166   180   168   191
  15          889   209   223   228   229
  16          864   230   190   218   226
  17          802   234   185   204   179
  18          616   178   154   159   125
  19          379    84    87   107   101
  20          399   120    94    91    94
  21          462   100   105   119   138
  22          623    81    86   243   213
  23          178    50    35    43    50
            10915 Total                                  Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start           11:00
         AM Peak Hour Total             644
         AM Peak Hour Factor          94.15 %
         PM Peak Hour Start           15:15
         PM Peak Hour Total             910
         PM Peak Hour Factor          98.91 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                     222
Site Name                Grand Boulevard (North Of Lindell Boulevard) Southbound
Jurisdiction             St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type               Volume (ch1)
Location Code            619270
Direction                South
Date                     11/11/2004
Real Time                13:09
Start Date               11/11/2004
Start Time               14:00
Sample Time              00:15
Operator Number          39
Machine Number           19

Friday, November 19, 2004

                     Channel 1                               Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                     HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00         Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00          173    57    43    42    31
  01           94    30    21    23    20
  02           51    13    15    12    11
  03           52    10    17     9    16
  04           61    13    17    18    13
  05          137    13    29    33    62
  06          302    45    72    87    98
  07          459    86   109   111   153
  08          585   145   130   155   155
  09          267   143   124
  10
  11
  12
  13
  14
  15
  16
  17
  18
  19
  20
  21
  22
  23
            2181 Total                                    Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start            08:00
         AM Peak Hour Total              585
         AM Peak Hour Factor           94.35 %
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                      223
                                                                                                               CBB#141-04
Site Name                 Grand Boulevard (South Of Delmar Boulevard) Southbound
Jurisdiction              St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type                Volume (ch1)
Location Code             507070
Direction                 South
Date                      11/11/2004
Real Time                 12:35
Start Date                11/11/2004
Start Time                13:00
Sample Time               00:15
Operator Number           39
Machine Number            7

Thursday, November 11, 2004

                     Channel 1                               Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                     HR                                HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00
  01
  02
  03
  04
  05
  06
  07
  08
  09
  10
  11
  12
  13          450   100     103   124    123
  14          496   112     138   132    114
  15          510   133     117   137    123
  16          505   157     121   120    107
  17          496   117     127   129    123
  18          381    79      97   104    101
  19          340   101      80    94     65
  20          282    89      62    66     65
  21          290    67      97    53     73
  22          211    57      53    58     43
  23          174    50      32    46     46
             4135 Total                                   Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start             15:30
         PM Peak Hour Total               538
         PM Peak Hour Factor            85.67 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                      224
Site Name               Grand Boulevard (South Of Delmar Boulevard) Southbound
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           507070
Direction               South
Date                    11/11/2004
Real Time               12:35
Start Date              11/11/2004
Start Time              13:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         39
Machine Number          7

Friday, November 12, 2004

                     Channel 1                             Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                   HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00       Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00          130    49    35    31    15
  01           61    17     9    14    21
  02           52    10    20    13     9
  03           42       8   8    15    11
  04           37       7   9     9    12
  05          132    27    20    34    51
  06          355    46    85   101   123
  07          555   105   130   153   167
  08          630   168   154   159   149
  09          550   131   126   132   161
  10          523   124   125   123   151
  11          615   149   145   170   151
  12          643   142   181   160   160
  13          643   154   185   147   157
  14          739   202   172   183   182
  15          714   172   182   171   189
  16          744   187   201   189   167
  17          560   147   145   120   148
  18          523   116   136   138   133
  19          500   119   150   124   107
  20          391   101   102    76   112
  21          471    83   113   124   151
  22          366    91   100   101    74
  23          278    75    72    56    75
            10254 Total                                 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          07:45
         AM Peak Hour Total            648
         AM Peak Hour Factor         96.43 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          15:45
         PM Peak Hour Total            766
         PM Peak Hour Factor         95.27 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                    225
Site Name               Grand Boulevard (South Of Delmar Boulevard) Southbound
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           507070
Direction               South
Date                    11/11/2004
Real Time               12:35
Start Date              11/11/2004
Start Time              13:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         39
Machine Number          7

Saturday, November 13, 2004

                     Channel 1                             Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                   HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00       Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00          216    76    63    38    39
  01          158    44    49    33    32
  02           77    28    17    22    10
  03           71    23    19    15    14
  04           37       6  11    11     9
  05           73    14    16    18    25
  06          121    20    39    21    41
  07          174    32    30    58    54
  08          276    62    64    76    74
  09          319    74    77    80    88
  10          360    87    90   107    76
  11          453   112    91   130   120
  12          486   113   122   130   121
  13          519   122   125   145   127
  14          465   127   115   100   123
  15          451   100   103   127   121
  16          535   115   144   149   127
  17          449   122   109   115   103
  18          436   103   122   109   102
  19          384   110    86    98    90
  20          353    94    95    85    79
  21          437    83    75   142   137
  22          327    91    82    87    67
  23          305    86    60    80    79
             7482 Total                                 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          11:00
         AM Peak Hour Total            453
         AM Peak Hour Factor         87.12 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          16:15
         PM Peak Hour Total            542
         PM Peak Hour Factor         90.94 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                    226
Site Name               Grand Boulevard (South Of Delmar Boulevard) Southbound
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           507070
Direction               South
Date                    11/11/2004
Real Time               12:35
Start Date              11/11/2004
Start Time              13:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         39
Machine Number          7

Sunday, November 14, 2004

                     Channel 1                             Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                   HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00       Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00          234    65    65    56    48
  01          155    31    40    40    44
  02           89    32    19    25    13
  03           66    22    13    15    16
  04           40    11     8     9    12
  05           55    10     8    16    21
  06           97    21    24    29    23
  07          107    18    30    23    36
  08          153    36    33    48    36
  09          233    43    52    45    93
  10          343    71    83    93    96
  11          337    79    94    89    75
  12          370    81    91    90   108
  13          573   113   154   184   122
  14          435    96    99   113   127
  15          556    93   133   172   158
  16          468   146    92   132    98
  17          411   121    99    89   102
  18          446   117   121   100   108
  19          330   102   101    68    59
  20          247    71    61    53    62
  21          231    51    58    65    57
  22          179    45    54    49    31
  23          144    38    30    37    39
             6299 Total                                 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          10:30
         AM Peak Hour Total            362
         AM Peak Hour Factor         94.27 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          15:15
         PM Peak Hour Total            609
         PM Peak Hour Factor         88.52 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                    227
Site Name               Grand Boulevard (South Of Delmar Boulevard) Southbound
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           507070
Direction               South
Date                    11/11/2004
Real Time               12:35
Start Date              11/11/2004
Start Time              13:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         39
Machine Number          7

Monday, November 15, 2004

                     Channel 1                             Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                   HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00       Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00          119    55    34    14    16
  01           44    13    15     8     8
  02           42    12    18    11     1
  03           39    10     8    12     9
  04           37       4   7     9    17
  05          127    22    23    31    51
  06          347    50    61   109   127
  07          614   119   163   160   172
  08          707   188   158   180   181
  09          543   124   127   142   150
  10          585   139   160   146   140
  11          564   134   139   140   151
  12          594   148   154   149   143
  13          624   160   160   150   154
  14          680   193   155   185   147
  15          721   191   177   172   181
  16          710   188   200   164   158
  17          543   159   138   139   107
  18          381    90   109    92    90
  19          304    91    67    90    56
  20          274    75    57    82    60
  21          237    58    66    47    66
  22          207    50    57    51    49
  23          160    46    41    40    33
             9203 Total                                 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          08:00
         AM Peak Hour Total            707
         AM Peak Hour Factor         94.02 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          15:30
         PM Peak Hour Total            741
         PM Peak Hour Factor         92.63 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                    228
Site Name               Grand Boulevard (South Of Delmar Boulevard) Southbound
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           507070
Direction               South
Date                    11/11/2004
Real Time               12:35
Start Date              11/11/2004
Start Time              13:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         39
Machine Number          7

Tuesday, November 16, 2004

                     Channel 1                             Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                   HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00       Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00          108    35    25    21    27
  01           72    20    18    17    17
  02           46    15    10     9    12
  03           33       8   4    14     7
  04           37       4  11     6    16
  05          123    25    20    41    37
  06          363    62    66   105   130
  07          591   114   136   170   171
  08          643   176   157   159   151
  09          545   140   147   134   124
  10          559   131   128   169   131
  11          602   161   141   143   157
  12          587   162   133   135   157
  13          614   142   161   174   137
  14          595   146   137   159   153
  15          655   155   158   182   160
  16          671   179   169   159   164
  17          589   140   145   176   128
  18          469   134   122    96   117
  19          337   107    88    74    68
  20          293    94    74    61    64
  21          316   113    81    57    65
  22          206    60    43    56    47
  23          163    40    44    37    42
             9217 Total                                 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          07:30
         AM Peak Hour Total            674
         AM Peak Hour Factor         95.74 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          15:30
         PM Peak Hour Total            690
         PM Peak Hour Factor         94.78 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                    229
Site Name               Grand Boulevard (South Of Delmar Boulevard) Southbound
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           507070
Direction               South
Date                    11/11/2004
Real Time               12:35
Start Date              11/11/2004
Start Time              13:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         39
Machine Number          7

Wednesday, November 17, 2004

                     Channel 1                             Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                   HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00       Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00          119    44    32    22    21
  01           70    21    21    14    14
  02           37       5   9    15     8
  03           37    10    10     9     8
  04           40       8   8     5    19
  05          140    19    19    46    56
  06          355    57    68   103   127
  07          592   119   127   165   181
  08          653   187   166   137   163
  09          564   137   156   132   139
  10          562   137   142   160   123
  11          525   109   129   148   139
  12          561   120   152   133   156
  13          577   155   129   162   131
  14          651   171   152   161   167
  15          694   186   196   160   152
  16          690   171   184   164   171
  17          608   133   169   150   156
  18          499   136   133   112   118
  19          403   108    95   116    84
  20          358   106    83    88    81
  21          295    83    82    55    75
  22          290    81    62    81    66
  23          186    44    45    41    56
             9506 Total                                 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          07:30
         AM Peak Hour Total            699
         AM Peak Hour Factor         93.45 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          14:30
         PM Peak Hour Total            710
         PM Peak Hour Factor         90.56 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                    230
Site Name               Grand Boulevard (South Of Delmar Boulevard) Southbound
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           507070
Direction               South
Date                    11/11/2004
Real Time               12:35
Start Date              11/11/2004
Start Time              13:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         39
Machine Number          7

Thursday, November 18, 2004

                     Channel 1                             Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                   HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00       Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00          139    44    33    36    26
  01           75    17    20    15    23
  02           62    14    16    15    17
  03           50    16    13    13     8
  04           38       5  11     9    13
  05          119    16    21    36    46
  06          319    59    68    89   103
  07          527    93   117   143   174
  08          564   167   140   129   128
  09          563   143   139   131   150
  10          519   114   144   125   136
  11          554   157   131   124   142
  12          580   158   136   131   155
  13          586   157   154   151   124
  14          566   141   138   151   136
  15          705   162   183   175   185
  16          626   168   146   168   144
  17          653   182   137   173   161
  18          542   144   140   144   114
  19          348    87    94   105    62
  20          297    95    68    67    67
  21          270    62    68    57    83
  22          236    61    45    74    56
  23          169    41    33    48    47
             9107 Total                                 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          07:30
         AM Peak Hour Total            624
         AM Peak Hour Factor         89.66 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          15:15
         PM Peak Hour Total            711
         PM Peak Hour Factor         96.08 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                    231
Site Name                Grand Boulevard (South Of Delmar Boulevard) Southbound
Jurisdiction             St. Louis, Missouri
Study Type               Volume (ch1)
Location Code            507070
Direction                South
Date                     11/11/2004
Real Time                12:35
Start Date               11/11/2004
Start Time               13:00
Sample Time              00:15
Operator Number          39
Machine Number           7

Friday, November 19, 2004

                     Channel 1                              Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                    HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00          139    41    36    34    28
  01           87    24    24    15    24
  02           43    11    13    11     8
  03           54    12    18     8    16
  04           59    10    13    17    19
  05          137    15    26    36    60
  06          327    50    78    88   111
  07          527    96   112   139   180
  08          645   161   164   161   159
  09          129   129
  10
  11
  12
  13
  14
  15
  16
  17
  18
  19
  20
  21
  22
  23
            2147 Total                                   Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start           07:45
         AM Peak Hour Total             666
         AM Peak Hour Factor          92.50 %
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                     232
                                                                                                              CBB#141-04
                                                                         Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                                                       1830 Craig Park Ct.
                                                                                    St. Louis, Missouri 63146
                                                                                          314-878-6644

N/S Street:Parking Driveways                                                                                                          File Name       : Enright at Parking Driveways AM
E/W Street:Enright Avenue                                                                                                             Site Code       : 12346789
City/State:St. Louis, Missouri                                                                                                        Start Date      : 10/3/2012
Job Number:084-12                                                                                                                     Page No         :1
                                                                                     Groups Printed- Unshifted
                           Parking Driveways                            Enright Avenue                          Parking Driveways                            Enright Avenue
                               Southbound                                 Westbound                                 Northbound                                 Eastbound
Start Time         Left   Thru   Right   Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru    Right  Peds App. Total    Left    Thru   Right   Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru    Right  Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
       07:15 AM     14       0       5       2          21      0      29        8     0        37       0        1       0       1           2      1      22        0     0          23          83
       07:30 AM      4       0       6       0          10      0      24        9     0        33       0        0       0       0           0      5      32        0     0          37          80
       07:45 AM      0       0       0       0           0      1      28        0     0        29       0        0       2       0           2      0      24        1     0          25          56
           Total    18       0      11       2          31      1      81       17     0        99       0        1       2       1           4      6      78        1     0          85         219


     08:15 AM        27      0       4       0          31      0      16       5       0       21       0        0       0       0           0      3      16      0      0          19           71
     08:30 AM         8      0       6       0          14      0      13       3       0       16       0        0       0       0           0      3      16      0      0          19           49
   Grand Total       53      0      21       2          76      1     110      25       0      136       0        1       2       1           4     12     110      1      0         123          339
    Apprch %       69.7      0    27.6     2.6                0.7    80.9    18.4       0                0      25      50       25                9.8    89.4    0.8      0
       Total %     15.6      0     6.2     0.6       22.4     0.3    32.4     7.4       0      40.1      0      0.3     0.6     0.3         1.2    3.5    32.4    0.3      0        36.3




 233
                                                                        Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                                                      1830 Craig Park Ct.
                                                                                   St. Louis, Missouri 63146
                                                                                         314-878-6644

N/S Street:Parking Driveways                                                                                                            File Name       : Enright at Parking Driveways PM
E/W Street:Enright Avenue                                                                                                               Site Code       : 12345678
City/State:St. Louis, Missouri                                                                                                          Start Date      : 10/2/2012
Job Number:084-12                                                                                                                       Page No         :1
                                                                                  Groups Printed- Unshifted - Bank 1
                          Parking Driveways                            Enright Avenue                             Parking Driveways                            Enright Avenue
                              Southbound                                 Westbound                                    Northbound                                 Eastbound
Start Time        Left   Thru   Right   Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru    Right    Peds App. Total     Left   Thru    Right   Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru    Right  Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
       02:30 PM    25       0       5       6          36      0      18        8       2         28       0        0       0       4           4      6      23        0     0          29           97

          Total    25       0      5       6           36      0      18       8       2         28       0        0       0       4            4      6     23       0      0           29           97


       03:15 PM    11       0      7       8           26      0      14       5       4         23       0        0       0       5            5      5     33       0      0           38           92
       03:30 PM     0       0      0       0            0      2      33       0       0         35       1        0       7       0            8      0     35       1      0           36           79

          Total    11       0      7       8           26      2      47       5       4         58       1        0       7       5           13      5     68       1      0           74         171

       04:00 PM    26       0      8      20           54      0       8       9       2         19       0        0       0      10           10      3     34       0      0           37         120
       04:15 PM    14       0     10       4           28      0      15       1       3         19       0        0       0       3            3      4     31       0      0           35          85
       04:30 PM     0       0      0       0            0      0      28       0       0         28       0        0       1       0            1      0     30       0      0           30          59

          Total    40       0     18      24           82      0      51      10       5         66       0        0       1      13           14      7     95       0      0         102          264

    05:00 PM        11      0       1       4         16       0       9       7       1         17       0        0       0       2            2       3     35      0      0          38           73
    05:15 PM         3      0      10       2         15       0      15       1       0         16       1        0       2       0            3       3     17      0      0          20           54
  Grand Total       90      0      41      44        175       2     140      31      12        185       2        0      10      24           36      24    238      1      0         263          659
    Apprch %      51.4      0    23.4    25.1                1.1    75.7    16.8     6.5                5.6        0    27.8    66.7                  9.1   90.5    0.4      0
      Total %     13.7      0     6.2     6.7       26.6     0.3    21.2     4.7     1.8       28.1     0.3        0     1.5     3.6         5.5      3.6   36.1    0.2      0        39.9
    Unshifted       87      0      31      44        162       2     140      30      12        184       2        0      10      24          36       21    238      1      0         260          642
  % Unshifted     96.7      0    75.6     100       92.6     100     100    96.8     100       99.5     100        0     100     100         100     87.5    100    100      0        98.9         97.4
      Bank 1         3      0      10       0         13       0       0       1       0          1       0        0       0       0           0        3      0      0      0           3           17
    % Bank 1       3.3      0    24.4       0        7.4       0       0     3.2       0        0.5       0        0       0       0           0     12.5      0      0      0         1.1          2.6




 234
                                                           Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                                      1830 Craig Park Ct.
                                                                   St. Louis, Missouri 63146
                                                                         314-878-6644

N/S Street: Grand Blvd                                                        File Name     : Location 1 - N Grand Blvd & Delmar Blvd AM
E/W Street: Delmar Blvd                                                       Site Code     : 84121001
City/State: St. Louis, MO                                                     Start Date    : 9/26/2012
Job Number: 84-12                                                             Page No       :1
                                                                     Groups Printed- Unshifted
                       Grand Blvd                             Delmar Blvd                     Grand Blvd                         Delmar Blvd
                       Southbound                             Westbound                       Northbound                         Eastbound
Start Time     Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds     App. Total   Int. Total
 07:00 AM        5   98     2     3       108         6       4    6      0      16     2   87     5     0       94         2     6    2     0          10        228
 07:15 AM        2 121      4    17       144         5     13     5      4      27     3   93     7     0      103         0     4    3     0           7        281
 07:30 AM        8 107      5    11       131        16       9    6      0      31     0   92     7     0       99         2     7    5     0          14        275
 07:45 AM        8 169      4     7       188        11     14    13      1      39     9   94     9     1      113         4    15   22     0          41        381
     Total      23 495     15    38       571        38     40    30      5   113      14 366     28     1      409         8    32   32     0          72       1165

 08:00 AM        7   129    5     8       149        10     17     6     0      33     4    97    6     1       108         2    7     4       0        13        303
 08:15 AM        5   126    4     6       141        10      9     6     1      26     3   109    5     0       117         1    7     0       4        12        296
 08:30 AM        3   131    2     3       139         7      9     9     1      26     1    81    1     2        85         0    8     1       0         9        259
 08:45 AM        2   128    1     5       136         5     13     4     0      22     3    85    4     0        92         1   11     0       0        12        262
     Total      17   514   12    22       565        32     48    25     2     107    11   372   16     3       402         4   33     5       4        46       1120

 Grand Total   40 1009      27    60    1136    70           88    55     7    220     25 738     44     4      811   12   65   37           4        118        2285
 Apprch %      3.5 88.8    2.4   5.3          31.8           40    25   3.2           3.1   91   5.4   0.5          10.2 55.1 31.4         3.4
  Total %      1.8 44.2    1.2   2.6     49.7  3.1          3.9   2.4   0.3     9.6   1.1 32.3   1.9   0.2     35.5  0.5  2.8  1.6         0.2         5.2




                                                                                                                                               235
                                                          Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                                     1830 Craig Park Ct.
                                                                  St. Louis, Missouri 63146
                                                                        314-878-6644

N/S Street: Grand Blvd                                                       File Name     : Location 1 - N Grand Blvd & Delmar Blvd PM
E/W Street: Delmar Blvd                                                      Site Code     : 84121002
City/State: St. Louis, MO                                                    Start Date    : 9/25/2012
Job Number: 84-12                                                            Page No       :1
                                                                    Groups Printed- Unshifted
                      Grand Blvd                             Delmar Blvd                     Grand Blvd                         Delmar Blvd
                      Southbound                             Westbound                       Northbound                         Eastbound
Start Time     Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds     App. Total   Int. Total
 02:00 PM        3     0    3     5        11        2       6    7      2      17     6 114      5     2      127         1    12    4     0          17         172
 02:15 PM        6     0    3     7        16        9     10    12      3      34     7 130      3     3      143         0     6   11     1          18         211
 02:30 PM        6     0    7     9        22        7     12     5      0      24     2 101      9     4      116         0     9    2     0          11         173
 02:45 PM        8     0    4     4        16        5     11     6      1      23     7 112      5     0      124         7     7   10     0          24         187
     Total      23     0   17    25        65       23     39    30      6      98    22 457     22     9      510         8    34   27     1          70         743

 03:00 PM        9    0     4   13        26        10     19    12     0      41     3    96    8     0       107         3    8     6       0        17         191
 03:15 PM       10    0     6   16        32         6      8     6     0      20    14   114    1     1       130         0    9     3       0        12         194
 03:30 PM       13    0     8   14        35         9     20     6     1      36     8    98    3     2       111         5    5    14       0        24         206
 03:45 PM       19    0     8   14        41         4     17    11     0      32    15   115    8     2       140         9   10    19       0        38         251
     Total      51    0    26   57       134        29     64    35     1     129    40   423   20     5       488        17   32    42       0        91         842

 04:00 PM        9    0     6    6         21        5     19    12     1      37     5   134    5     4       148         7    7     3       0        17         223
 04:15 PM       11    0     4    5         20        9     21     6     0      36     5   127   13     4       149         2   14     2       0        18         223
 04:30 PM        8    0     6   10         24       10      9    12     0      31     5   152   11     2       170         5    3     6       0        14         239
 04:45 PM       11    0     3    7         21       13     19     7     0      39     8   117    7     2       134         7   13     4       0        24         218
     Total      39    0    19   28         86       37     68    37     1     143    23   530   36    12       601        21   37    15       0        73         903

 05:00 PM       16    0     2    6         24        8     30     6     0      44     7   151   11     2       171         4    9     4       0        17         256
 05:15 PM        9    0     7    3         19       14     26    11     0      51     4   131   11     1       147         2   12     1       0        15         232
 05:30 PM        7    0     4    0         11        8     23    10     0      41     6   114    7     3       130         0    7     2       0         9         191
 05:45 PM        6    0     6    3         15        8     18     6     0      32     6   116    7     0       129         2    2     5       0         9         185
     Total      38    0    19   12         69       38     97    33     0     168    23   512   36     6       577         8   30    12       0        50         864

 Grand Total    151   0   81 122         354  127 268 135                8    538    108 1922   114    32    2176         54 133    96      1        284        3352
 Apprch %      42.7   0 22.9 34.5            23.6 49.8 25.1            1.5             5 88.3   5.2   1.5                 19 46.8 33.8    0.4
  Total %       4.5   0  2.4  3.6       10.6  3.8    8    4            0.2    16.1   3.2 57.3   3.4     1     64.9       1.6    4  2.9      0         8.5




                                                                                                                                              236
                                                            Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                                       1830 Craig Park Ct.
                                                                    St. Louis, Missouri 63146
                                                                          314-878-6644

N/S Street: Grand Blvd                                                         File Name      : Location 2 - N Grand Blvd & Enright Ave AM
E/W Street: Enright Ave                                                        Site Code      : 08412004
City/State: St. Louis, MO                                                      Start Date     : 9/25/2012
Job Number: 84-12                                                              Page No        :1
                                                                       Groups Printed- Unshifted
                       Grand Blvd                              Enright Ave                      Grand Blvd                          Enright Ave
                       Southbound                              Westbound                        Northbound                          Eastbound
Start Time     Left Thru Right Peds     App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds      App. Total   Int. Total
 07:00 AM        3   78    13     0         94         4       3     5     0      12    22    79     4     0      105         9    11    7     0          27         238
 07:15 AM        1 115     14     0        130         3       3     1     0       7    16    69     5     0       90         6    24   10     0          40         267
 07:30 AM        7 146     15     0        168         4       4     5     0      13    15    94     6     0      115         8    26   13     0          47         343
 07:45 AM        5 146     18     0        169         1       5     3     0       9    12    99     6     0      117        16    18   12     0          46         341
     Total      16 485     60     0        561        12     15     14     0      41    65 341      21     0      427        39    79   42     0         160        1189

 08:00 AM        7   114   15       0      136         0      9     1      0     10    10   111     8     0       129        17   19    15        0       51         326
 08:15 AM        6   124    6       0      136         1      2     6      0      9    11    86     3     0       100         9   17    13        0       39         284
 08:30 AM        5   108   11       0      124         4      5     7      0     16    11    86     6     0       103        14   20    17        0       51         294
 08:45 AM        8   105    8       0      121         7      2    19      0     28    10    77     7     0        94        10   22    10        0       42         285
     Total      26   451   40       0      517        12     18    33      0     63    42   360    24     0       426        50   78    55        0      183        1189

 Grand Total   42 936      100      0    1078    24   33   47              0    104  107 701        45    0       853   89 157    97              0      343        2378
 Apprch %      3.9 86.8    9.3      0          23.1 31.7 45.2              0        12.5 82.2      5.3    0           25.9 45.8 28.3              0
  Total %      1.8 39.4    4.2      0     45.3    1  1.4    2              0    4.4  4.5 29.5      1.9    0      35.9  3.7  6.6  4.1              0     14.4




                                                                                                                                                  237
                                                            Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                                       1830 Craig Park Ct.
                                                                    St. Louis, Missouri 63146
                                                                          314-878-6644

N/S Street: Grand Blvd                                                        File Name       : Location 2 - N Grand Blvd & Enright Ave PM
E/W Street: Enright Ave                                                       Site Code       : 84122002
City/State: St. Louis, MO                                                     Start Date      : 9/25/2012
Job Number: 84-12                                                             Page No         :1
                                                                       Groups Printed- Unshifted
                       Grand Blvd                              Enright Ave                      Grand Blvd                          Enright Ave
                       Southbound                              Westbound                        Northbound                          Eastbound
Start Time     Left Thru Right Peds     App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds      App. Total   Int. Total
 02:00 PM        3   95     5     7        110         7       4    13     5      29     9     2     2     7        20       18    17   29     2          66          225
 02:15 PM        5   97     3     4        109         7       4    23    14      48     5     1     2     7        15       14     8   27     4          53          225
 02:30 PM        3 114      8     9        134         8       6    16     7      37     6     0     4     4        14       12     9   24     9          54          239
 02:45 PM        4 112     10     8        134         8       6    20    17      51     5     0     1     8        14       13     8   23     2          46          245
     Total      15 418     26    28        487        30     20     72    43    165     25     3     9    26        63       57    42 103     17         219          934

 03:00 PM        5   105    5     22       137         9      2    10    11      32     9     0     3     9         21       14   11    27        2       54         244
 03:15 PM        5   126    9      9       149         7      4    13    20      44    12     0     4     7         23       13    9    31        4       57         273
 03:30 PM        7   125   13     23       168         8      3    16     7      34    10     0     2     9         21       19    6    33        3       61         284
 03:45 PM        4   129   10     16       159         5      1    18    23      47     8     0     4    11         23       17    6    18        0       41         270
     Total      21   485   37     70       613        29     10    57    61     157    39     0    13    36         88       63   32   109        9      213        1071

 04:00 PM        1   146    6     19       172         8      0    19    10      37    10     0     1    11         22       20   15    38     0          73         304
 04:15 PM        4   118    4      8       134        12      4    13    18      47     8     0     1     8         17       22    7    22     3          54         252
 04:30 PM        2   119   13      8       142        11      3    13     1      28     9     0     2     9         20       18   14    23     4          59         249
 04:45 PM       15   129    6      6       156         6      3    10     3      22     6     2     4     9         21       13   10    23     4          50         249
     Total      22   512   29     41       604        37     10    55    32     134    33     2     8    37         80       73   46   106    11         236        1054

 05:00 PM        5   124    6      7       142         5      7     8     4      24     6     0     2     2         10        6    6    21        1       34          210
 05:15 PM        1   140    6      2       149         6      2     4     1      13     6     0     2     5         13       12    4    15        2       33          208
 05:30 PM        0   119    5      2       126         1      5     7     1      14     5     0     6     4         15       13    9    20        1       43          198
 05:45 PM        5   123    7      4       139         5      4     4     4      17     4     0     1     3          8        8    5    17        0       30          194
     Total      11   506   24     15       556        17     18    23    10      68    21     0    11    14         46       39   24    73        4      140          810

 Grand Total   69 1921     116   154     2260   113   58 207 146                524  118      5   41 113          277   232 144 391           41         808        3869
 Apprch %      3.1   85    5.1    6.8          21.6 11.1 39.5 27.9                  42.6    1.8 14.8 40.8              28.7 17.8 48.4        5.1
  Total %      1.8 49.7      3      4     58.4  2.9  1.5  5.4  3.8             13.5    3    0.1  1.1  2.9          7.2    6  3.7 10.1        1.1        20.9




                                                                                                                                                  238
                                                           Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                                      1830 Craig Park Ct.
                                                                   St. Louis, Missouri 63146
                                                                         314-878-6644

N/S Street: Grand Blvd                                                            File Name        : Location 3 - N Grand Blvd & Bell Ave AM
E/W Street: Bell Ave                                                              Site Code        : 84123001
City/State: St. Louis, MO                                                         Start Date       : 9/27/2012
Job Number: 84-12                                                                 Page No          :1
                                                                       Groups Printed- Unshifted
                       Grand Blvd                               Bell Ave                        Grand Blvd                           Bell Ave
                       Southbound                             Westbound                         Northbound                          Eastbound
Start Time     Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds     App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
 07:00 AM       29   93     4     2       128         9       4    15      1     29      5    60     6     0       71         0     3    2     2          7        235
 07:15 AM       14 166      1     9       190         3       3      6     1     13      1    69     1     1       72         0     4    4     0          8        283
 07:30 AM        6 152      0     4       162         1       3      4     0       8     1    90     3     1       95         2     0    6     3         11        276
 07:45 AM       12 180      6     4       202         2       1      5     2     10      4    99     4     0      107         0     1    6     6         13        332
     Total      61 591     11    19       682        15     11     30      4     60     11 318      14     2      345         2     8   18    11         39       1126

 08:00 AM        7   142    2     1       152         6      0     1      0      7      2    92     4     0        98         0    0     8      0         8        265
 08:15 AM        6   146    2     6       160         3      3     7      0     13      5   101     1     0       107         0    2     7      0         9        289
 08:30 AM        9   115    2     5       131         2      0     4      2      8      5    68     6     0        79         3    0     5      1         9        227
 08:45 AM        7   139    6     4       156         1      0     6      0      7      2    70     1     3        76         1    1     8      5        15        254
     Total      29   542   12    16       599        12      3    18      2     35     14   331    12     3       360         4    3    28      6        41       1035

 Grand Total   90 1133      23    35    1281    27   14   48              6     95     25 649      26      5      705         6   11   46   17           80       2161
 Apprch %        7 88.4    1.8   2.7          28.4 14.7 50.5            6.3           3.5 92.1    3.7    0.7                7.5 13.8 57.5 21.2
  Total %      4.2 52.4    1.1   1.6     59.3  1.2  0.6  2.2            0.3     4.4   1.2   30    1.2    0.2     32.6       0.3  0.5  2.1  0.8          3.7




                                                                                                                                                239
                                                           Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                                      1830 Craig Park Ct.
                                                                   St. Louis, Missouri 63146
                                                                         314-878-6644

N/S Street: Grand Blvd                                                            File Name        : Location 3 - N Grand Blvd & Bell Ave PM
E/W Street: Bell Ave                                                              Site Code        : 84123002
City/State: St. Louis, MO                                                         Start Date       : 9/26/2012
Job Number: 84-12                                                                 Page No          :1
                                                                       Groups Printed- Unshifted
                      Grand Blvd                                Bell Ave                        Grand Blvd                           Bell Ave
                      Southbound                              Westbound                         Northbound                          Eastbound
Start Time     Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds     App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
 02:00 PM       11     0    5     2         18        5       0      3     4     12      2 104       0     1      107         4     1    4     3        12         149
 02:15 PM       11     0    1     1         13        9       1    17      9     36      5 142       1     2      150         2     1    3     2         8         207
 02:30 PM       11     0    0     0         11        3       3      7     1     14      2 104       2     7      115         2     5    7     4        18         158
 02:45 PM        6     0    5     9         20        4       1      8     6     19     10 128       6     0      144         1     2    3     0         6         189
     Total      39     0   11    12         62       21       5    35     20     81     19 478       9    10      516         9     9   17     9        44         703

 03:00 PM        5    0     1    2           8        6      2     6      5     19      5   123     2     1       131         4    5     3    1         13         171
 03:15 PM        8    0     2    4          14        1      1     7      0      9      3   121     0     2       126         0    1     7    0          8         157
 03:30 PM        6    0     2    2          10        2      2     9      4     17      7   149     4     3       163         1    2     4    3         10         200
 03:45 PM       12    0     0    8          20        2      0     4      5     11      8   162     1     9       180         2    0     5    6         13         224
     Total      31    0     5   16          52       11      5    26     14     56     23   555     7    15       600         7    8    19   10         44         752

 04:00 PM        5    0     3      0         8        2      3     5      4     14      7   130     2     1       140         2    3     1    2          8         170
 04:15 PM       12    0     2      2        16        0      4     8      4     16      2   138     1     1       142         0    0     7    2          9         183
 04:30 PM       13    0     1      0        14        1      0     5      1      7      4   126     2     0       132         2    0     2    6         10         163
 04:45 PM       11    0     1      2        14        3      1     6      2     12      0   155     2     3       160         0    1     6    5         12         198
     Total      41    0     7      4        52        6      8    24     11     49     13   549     7     5       574         4    4    16   15         39         714

 05:00 PM       15    0     0      1        16        4      3     9      6     22      5   146     2     1       154         0    3     2    5         10         202
 05:15 PM        9    0     1      3        13        4      2    15      2     23      5   135     2     5       147         1    2     5    4         12         195
 05:30 PM       14    0     1      0        15        4      2     5      0     11      0   128     2     1       131         1    0     0    1          2         159
 05:45 PM        8    0     0      1         9        3      2     7     11     23      1    99     0     2       102         0    2     2    2          6         140
     Total      46    0     2      5        53       15      9    36     19     79     11   508     6     9       534         2    7     9   12         30         696

 Grand Total    157   0   25   37         219        53   27 121    64         265     66 2090     29     39    2224         22   28   61   46        157        2865
 Apprch %      71.7   0 11.4 16.9                    20 10.2 45.7 24.2                  3   94    1.3    1.8                 14 17.8 38.9 29.3
  Total %       5.5   0  0.9  1.3          7.6      1.8  0.9  4.2  2.2          9.2   2.3 72.9      1    1.4     77.6       0.8    1  2.1  1.6         5.5




                                                                                                                                                240
                                                            Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                                       1830 Craig Park Ct.
                                                                    St. Louis, Missouri 63146
                                                                          314-878-6644

N/S Street: Grand Blvd                                                    File Name         : Location 4 - N Grand Blvd & Windsor Place AM
E/W Street: Windsor Place                                                 Site Code         : 08412004
City/State: St. Louis, MO                                                 Start Date        : 9/26/2012
Job Number: 84-12                                                         Page No           :1
                                                                      Groups Printed- Unshifted
                       Grand Blvd                             Windsor Place                    Grand Blvd                        Windsor Place
                       Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                         Eastbound
Start Time     Left Thru Right Peds     App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
 07:00 AM        0 149      8     1        158         0       0    0     0        0     3   91     0     0       94         0     0    1     0           1        253
 07:15 AM        0 141      3     6        150         0       0    0     0        0     4   82     0     0       86         0     0    0     0           0        236
 07:30 AM        0 160      5     5        170         0       0    0     0        0     1   88     0     0       89         0     0    1     0           1        260
 07:45 AM        0 165      3     2        170         0       0    0     0        0     0   71     0     0       71         0     0    0     0           0        241
     Total       0 615     19    14        648         0       0    0     0        0     8 332      0     0      340         0     0    2     0           2        990

 08:00 AM        0   129    5       2      136         0      0     0     0       0     2     58   0     0        60         0    0     1    0            1        197
 08:15 AM        0   138    1       1      140         0      0     0     0       0     1    103   0     0       104         0    0     0    0            0        244
 08:30 AM        0   133    1       1      135         0      0     0     0       0     1     71   0     0        72         0    0     1    0            1        208
 08:45 AM        0   110    0       0      110         0      0     0     0       0     3     79   0     0        82         0    0     0    0            0        192
     Total       0   510    7       4      521         0      0     0     0       0     7    311   0     0       318         0    0     2    0            2        841

 Grand Total     0 1125     26    18     1169          0      0     0     0       0    15 643      0     0       658         0    0     4    0            4      1831
 Apprch %        0 96.2    2.2   1.5                   0      0     0     0           2.3 97.7     0     0                   0    0   100    0
  Total %        0 61.4    1.4     1      63.8         0      0     0     0       0   0.8 35.1     0     0      35.9         0    0   0.2    0         0.2




                                                                                                                                                 241
                                                            Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                                       1830 Craig Park Ct.
                                                                    St. Louis, Missouri 63146
                                                                          314-878-6644

N/S Street: Grand Blvd                                                    File Name         : Location 4 - N Grand Blvd & Windsor Place PM
E/W Street: Windsor Place                                                 Site Code         : 84124002
City/State: St. Louis, MO                                                 Start Date        : 9/26/2012
Job Number: 84-12                                                         Page No           :1
                                                                      Groups Printed- Unshifted
                       Grand Blvd                             Windsor Place                    Grand Blvd                        Windsor Place
                       Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                         Eastbound
Start Time     Left Thru Right Peds     App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds   App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
 02:00 PM        0 122      0     0        122         0       0    0     0        0     0     0    0     8         8        0     0    2     1          3         133
 02:15 PM        0 123      3     8        134         0       0    0     0        0     1     0    0     7         8        1     0    0     4          5         147
 02:30 PM        0 129      0     9        138         0       0    0     0        0     0     0    0     2         2        1     0    4     0          5         145
 02:45 PM        0 143      3     4        150         0       0    0     1        1     0     0    0     0         0        1     0    1     2          4         155
     Total       0 517      6    21        544         0       0    0     1        1     1     0    0    17        18        3     0    7     7         17         580

 03:00 PM        0   117    0    3         120         0      0     0     0       0     0     0    0     1           1       1    0     1    0           2         123
 03:15 PM        0   142    1    1         144         0      0     0     0       0     0     0    0     1           1       2    0     1    3           6         151
 03:30 PM        0   141    1   11         153         0      0     0     2       2     1     0    0     0           1       3    0     1    0           4         160
 03:45 PM        0   132    1    1         134         0      0     0     0       0     2     0    0     2           4       3    0     7    0          10         148
     Total       0   532    3   16         551         0      0     0     2       2     3     0    0     4           7       9    0    10    3          22         582

 04:00 PM        0   148    1       3      152         0      0     0     0       0     0     0    0     0           0       1    0     2    0           3         155
 04:15 PM        0   134    3       1      138         0      0     0     0       0     1     0    0     0           1       1    0     3    0           4         143
 04:30 PM        0   158    1       4      163         0      0     0     0       0     0     0    0     0           0       1    0     2    0           3         166
 04:45 PM        0   155    1       0      156         0      0     0     0       0     2     0    0     0           2       2    0     0    0           2         160
     Total       0   595    6       8      609         0      0     0     0       0     3     0    0     0           3       5    0     7    0          12         624

 05:00 PM        0   143    2    3         148         0      0     0     0       0     0     0    0     0           0       2    0     2    0           4         152
 05:15 PM        0   153    3    3         159         0      0     0     3       3     0     0    0     1           1       3    0     1    0           4         167
 05:30 PM        0   158    0    2         160         0      0     0     6       6     0     0    0     0           0       3    0     3    0           6         172
 05:45 PM        0   108    4    7         119         0      0     0     0       0     0     0    0     1           1       0    0     2    0           2         122
     Total       0   562    9   15         586         0      0     0     9       9     0     0    0     2           2       8    0     8    0          16         613

 Grand Total     0 2206    24    60      2290          0      0     0    12     12     7      0    0   23          30   25        0   32   10           67       2399
 Apprch %        0 96.3     1   2.6                    0      0     0   100         23.3      0    0 76.7             37.3        0 47.8 14.9
  Total %        0   92     1   2.5       95.5         0      0     0   0.5     0.5  0.3      0    0    1         1.3    1        0  1.3  0.4          2.8




                                                                                                                                                 242
                                                            Crawford, Bunte, Brammeier
                                                                       1830 Craig Park Ct.
                                                                    St. Louis, Missouri 63146
                                                                          314-878-6644

N/S Street: Spring Ave                                                         File Name      : Location 5 - N Spring Ave & Delmar Blvd AM
E/W Street: Delmar Blvd                                                        Site Code      : 84125002
City/State: St. Louis, MO                                                      Start Date     : 9/28/2012
Job Number: 84-12                                                              Page No        :1
                                                                      Groups Printed- Unshifted
                       Spring Ave                              Delmar Blvd                      Spring Ave                         Delmar Blvd
                       Southbound                              Westbound                       Northbound                          Eastbound
Start Time     Left Thru Right Peds     App. Total   Left   Thru Right Peds App. Total Left Thru Right Peds    App. Total   Left Thru Right Peds     App. Total   Int. Total
 07:00 AM        6   25     0     1         32         6       0    9      1      16     0   18      6     0       24         0     0    0     0            0         72
 07:15 AM        7   33     0     2         42        10       0   11      2      23     0   23      3     0       26         0     0    0     0            0         91
 07:30 AM       14   60     0     0         74        13       0    9      0      22     0   48     14     0       62         0     0    0     0            0        158
 07:45 AM        7   71     0     0         78        11       0   12      0      23     0   60     18     0       78         0     0    0     1            1        180
     Total      34 189      0     3        226        40       0   41      3      84     0 149      41     0      190         0     0    0     1            1        501

 08:00 AM        4    66    0       0       70         8      0    13      0     21     0    48     7     3        58         0    0     0       0          0        149
 08:15 AM        3    31    0       0       34         2      0    12      0     14     0    19     7     0        26         0    0     0       0          0         74
 08:30 AM        1    25    0       0       26         0      0    14      0     14     0    20     8     2        30         0    0     0       0          0         70
 08:45 AM        0    20    0       0       20         0      0    16      0     16     0    22     6     0        28         0    0     0       0          0         64
     Total       8   142    0       0      150        10      0    55      0     65     0   109    28     5       142         0    0     0       0          0        357

 Grand Total    42 331      0     3        376   50           0   96       3    149     0 258    69        5      332         0    0     0     1            1        858
 Apprch %      11.2   88    0   0.8            33.6           0 64.4       2            0 77.7 20.8      1.5                  0    0     0   100
  Total %       4.9 38.6    0   0.3       43.8  5.8           0 11.2     0.3   17.4     0 30.1    8      0.6     38.7         0    0     0   0.1         0.1




                                                                                                                                                 243
Site Name                   Bell Ave between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction                St. Louis, MO
Study Type                  Volume (ch1)
Location Code               309150
Direction                   East
Date                        9/26/2012
Real Time                   09:50
Start Date                  9/26/2012
Start Time                  10:00
Sample Time                 00:15
Operator Number             69
Machine Number              9

Wednesday, September 26, 2012

                      Channel 1                                 Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                        HR                                HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00           Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00
  01
  02
  03
  04
  05
  06
  07
  08
  09
  10           57    21         8     17     11
  11           42    11        11     13      7
  12           41    11        11     10      9
  13           45       4      13     12     16
  14           73    15        13     24     21
  15           58    15        14     20      9
  16           41    11        13      9      8
  17           37    14        13      4      6
  18           20       3       6      6      5
  19           14       6       4      2      2
  20           11       1       5      2      3
  21            9       3       1      2      3
  22           10       1       5      2      2
  23           12       2       4      2      4
              470 Total                                      Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start                10:00
         AM Peak Hour Total                   57
         AM Peak Hour Factor               67.86 %
         PM Peak Hour Start                14:30
         PM Peak Hour Total                   74
         PM Peak Hour Factor               77.08 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                         244
Site Name               Bell Ave between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           309150
Direction               East
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               09:50
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              10:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          9

Thursday, September 27, 2012

                     Channel 1                             Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                   HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00       Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00            3       0   0     2     1
  01            6       2   1     0     3
  02            7       2   1     3     1
  03            5       1   2     1     1
  04            7       0   2     1     4
  05            6       0   1     0     5
  06           35       7   4    12    12
  07           62    11    13    13    25
  08           81    25    28    16    12
  09           52       5  13    21    13
  10           56       5  14    14    23
  11           51    11     9    13    18
  12           62    17     8    16    21
  13           56    17    12    14    13
  14           45    18    11     5    11
  15           56    13    14    17    12
  16           57    18    21    11     7
  17           44    10    11    17     6
  18           35    14     6     8     7
  19           29       8   7     4    10
  20           14       8   3     2     1
  21           13       2   2     6     3
  22           21       2   4     7     8
  23            8       3   2     3     0
              811 Total                                 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          07:45
         AM Peak Hour Total             94
         AM Peak Hour Factor         83.93 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          15:30
         PM Peak Hour Total             68
         PM Peak Hour Factor         80.95 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                    245
Site Name               Bell Ave between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           309150
Direction               East
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               09:50
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              10:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          9

Friday, September 28, 2012

                     Channel 1                             Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                   HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00       Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00            5       2   1     2     0
  01            7       1   3     2     1
  02            8       4   0     3     1
  03            5       0   0     3     2
  04           10       0   3     4     3
  05            6       3   1     1     1
  06           28       6   6     7     9
  07           58    11    18    11    18
  08           57    14    16    17    10
  09           70    21    14    20    15
  10           65       9  19    25    12
  11           59    13    12    15    19
  12           64    10    12    16    26
  13           59    19    14    14    12
  14           80    18    29    13    20
  15           63    12    11    21    19
  16           55    21    12    16     6
  17           47    13    13    11    10
  18           32    12     3     9     8
  19           25       5   6     8     6
  20           20       6   4     3     7
  21           23       3   9     5     6
  22           13       3   5     1     4
  23            4       2   1     1     0
              863 Total                                 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          09:00
         AM Peak Hour Total             70
         AM Peak Hour Factor         83.33 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          14:00
         PM Peak Hour Total             80
         PM Peak Hour Factor         68.97 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                    246
Site Name               Bell Ave between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           309150
Direction               East
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               09:50
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              10:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          9

Saturday, September 29, 2012

                      Channel 1                            Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                   HR                                HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00      Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00           10       3    0     1     6
  01             9      2    2     3     2
  02           14       3    4     3     4
  03             6      3    1     1     1
  04             8      3    1     3     1
  05             1      1    0     0     0
  06           11       0    4     3     4
  07           19       1    7     5     6
  08           32       7    8     4    13
  09           27       7    5     4    11
  10           41     13     7    12     9
  11           35       5   16    10     4
  12           50     15    14    10    11
  13           37     11     7     7    12
  14           38     11     5    14     8
  15           39       9   11    10     9
  16           46       8   17    15     6
  17           33       9   10     5     9
  18           37       9    5    13    10
  19           39     11     6    11    11
  20           25     12     9     1     3
  21           19       4   10     2     3
  22           26       7   10     6     3
  23             9      2    4     1     2
              611 Total                                 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          09:45
         AM Peak Hour Total             43
         AM Peak Hour Factor         82.69 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          12:00
         PM Peak Hour Total             50
         PM Peak Hour Factor         83.33 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                    247
Site Name               Bell Ave between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           309150
Direction               East
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               09:50
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              10:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          9

Sunday, September 30, 2012

                      Channel 1                            Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                   HR                                HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00      Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00           12       3    3     4     2
  01             6      1    2     2     1
  02             9      2    3     1     3
  03             3      2    0     1     0
  04             6      3    1     1     1
  05             2      0    0     1     1
  06             4      1    0     1     2
  07             4      0    2     1     1
  08           10       2    2     3     3
  09           15       2    4     5     4
  10           18       6    2     5     5
  11           16       9    4     1     2
  12           20       4    5     5     6
  13           21       7    7     2     5
  14           26       8    6     2    10
  15           23       4    7     8     4
  16           18       7    1     4     6
  17           25     11     7     3     4
  18           15       3    5     2     5
  19           15       5    6     2     2
  20           13       5    3     3     2
  21           13       6    1     2     4
  22             7      2    3     1     1
  23             6      2    1     1     2
              307 Total                                 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          10:30
         AM Peak Hour Total             23
         AM Peak Hour Factor         63.89 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          14:45
         PM Peak Hour Total             29
         PM Peak Hour Factor         72.50 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                    248
Site Name               Bell Ave between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           309150
Direction               East
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               09:50
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              10:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          9

Monday, October 01, 2012

                     Channel 1                             Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                   HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00       Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00            5       1   0     2     2
  01            2       1   1     0     0
  02            1       0   0     0     1
  03            3       0   1     2     0
  04            8       2   3     1     2
  05            8       0   1     1     6
  06           35       8   5     9    13
  07           58    13     7    14    24
  08           72    18    17    16    21
  09           60    16    11    14    19
  10           51    10    18    13    10
  11           62    18    16    16    12
  12           64    10    12    30    12
  13           63    15    13    20    15
  14           62    15    16    14    17
  15           71    10    20    26    15
  16           73    23    23    18     9
  17           39    11    13    11     4
  18           25       8   4     6     7
  19           23       7   3     6     7
  20           12       6   4     2     0
  21           10       3   0     3     4
  22            3       1   2     0     0
  23            6       0   3     3     0
              816 Total                                 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          07:45
         AM Peak Hour Total             75
         AM Peak Hour Factor         78.13 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          15:30
         PM Peak Hour Total             87
         PM Peak Hour Factor         83.65 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                    249
Site Name               Bell Ave between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           309150
Direction               East
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               09:50
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              10:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          9

Tuesday, October 02, 2012

                     Channel 1                             Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                   HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00       Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00            4       2   2     0     0
  01            2       0   1     0     1
  02            2       0   0     1     1
  03            0       0   0     0     0
  04            4       0   0     2     2
  05            6       3   0     1     2
  06           33       4   7     8    14
  07           44    15    14     7     8
  08           75    15    27    15    18
  09           75    25    11    19    20
  10           73    15    27    18    13
  11           67    17    11    22    17
  12           80    25    19    12    24
  13           51    16    11    12    12
  14           69       8  20    22    19
  15           50    14    12    11    13
  16           64    23    18    11    12
  17           53    13    14    17     9
  18           39    10     8    12     9
  19           26       6   8     5     7
  20           19       4   8     7     0
  21           11       2   3     1     5
  22            9       3   2     3     1
  23            2       1   0     1     0
              858 Total                                 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          08:15
         AM Peak Hour Total             85
         AM Peak Hour Factor         78.70 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          12:00
         PM Peak Hour Total             80
         PM Peak Hour Factor         80.00 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                    250
Site Name               Bell Ave between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           309150
Direction               East
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               09:50
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              10:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          9

Wednesday, October 03, 2012

                     Channel 1                             Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                   HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00       Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00            2       0   2     0     0
  01            3       0   1     0     2
  02            3       1   1     0     1
  03            3       0   2     1     0
  04            3       0   1     2     0
  05            3       0   0     1     2
  06           28       5   4    11     8
  07           58    16    13    10    19
  08           76    25    19    18    14
  09           74    22    18    16    18
  10           76    10    21    23    22
  11           52    11    14    12    15
  12           52       7  13    18    14
  13           65    22    18    14    11
  14           74       9  29    25    11
  15           56    17    12    16    11
  16           72    29    19    16     8
  17           37    14     9     9     5
  18           28       8   8     4     8
  19           19       2   9     5     3
  20           13       5   5     2     1
  21            4       1   1     2     0
  22           10       3   1     5     1
  23            9       2   3     1     3
              820 Total                                 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          07:45
         AM Peak Hour Total             81
         AM Peak Hour Factor         81.00 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          14:15
         PM Peak Hour Total             82
         PM Peak Hour Factor         70.69 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                    251
Site Name                 Bell Ave between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction              St. Louis, MO
Study Type                Volume (ch1)
Location Code             309150
Direction                 East
Date                      9/26/2012
Real Time                 09:50
Start Date                9/26/2012
Start Time                10:00
Sample Time               00:15
Operator Number           69
Machine Number            9

Thursday, October 04, 2012

                      Channel 1                              Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                     HR                                HR
 Begin     Total    00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00       Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00            7       1     1     2     3
  01            2       2     0     0     0
  02            4       0     2     1     1
  03            2       2     0     0     0
  04            8       5     1     1     1
  05           13       1     5     0     7
  06           26       5     4     7    10
  07           46      11    16     6    13
  08           66      15    21    14    16
  09           64      26    10    14    14
  10           51      17    22    12
  11
  12
  13
  14
  15
  16
  17
  18
  19
  20
  21
  22
  23
              289 Total                                   Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start            08:15
         AM Peak Hour Total               77
         AM Peak Hour Factor           74.04 %
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                      252
Site Name                  Bell between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction               St. Louis, MO
Study Type                 Volume (ch2)
Location Code              309560
Direction                  West
Date                       9/26/2012
Real Time                  09:50
Start Date                 9/26/2012
Start Time                 10:00
Sample Time                00:15
Operator Number            69
Machine Number             9

Wednesday, September 26, 2012

                      Channel 1                               Channel 2                     Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                     HR                                HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00
  01
  02
  03
  04
  05
  06
  07
  08
  09
  10                                                  28       9     4    11    4
  11                                                  20       5     8     4    3
  12                                                  19       3     5     5    6
  13                                                  23       2     7     7    7
  14                                                  37       8     8     4   17
  15                                                  33       8     6    13    6
  16                                                  25       7     7     9    2
  17                                                  26       7    12     3    4
  18                                                  12       0     3     6    3
  19                                                   4       2     2     0    0
  20                                                   4       1     0     2    1
  21                                                   2       0     0     1    1
  22                                                   6       0     3     2    1
  23                                                   4       1     0     1    2
                   Total                             243 Total                              Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start             10:00
         AM Peak Hour Total                28
         AM Peak Hour Factor            63.64 %
         PM Peak Hour Start             14:45
         PM Peak Hour Total                44
         PM Peak Hour Factor            64.71 %

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                      253
Site Name                  Bell between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction               St. Louis, MO
Study Type                 Volume (ch2)
Location Code              309560
Direction                  West
Date                       9/26/2012
Real Time                  09:50
Start Date                 9/26/2012
Start Time                 10:00
Sample Time                00:15
Operator Number            69
Machine Number             9

Thursday, September 27, 2012

                      Channel 1                               Channel 2                    Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                     HR                               HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00                                                   0       0   0     0     0
  01                                                   0       0   0     0     0
  02                                                   3       2   0     1     0
  03                                                   3       0   1     1     1
  04                                                   1       0   0     0     1
  05                                                   2       0   0     0     2
  06                                                  14       3   1     5     5
  07                                                  30       3   7     3    17
  08                                                  17       8   8     1     0
  09                                                  14       0   0    14     0
  10                                                   7       0   1     0     6
  11                                                  24       4   6     7     7
  12                                                  26       9   5     7     5
  13                                                  21    10     7     4     0
  14                                                  25       7   8     3     7
  15                                                  25       4   9     8     4
  16                                                  32       8  15     6     3
  17                                                  25       4   6    12     3
  18                                                  23       9   3     5     6
  19                                                  10       3   2     0     5
  20                                                  10       6   2     2     0
  21                                                   7       1   1     4     1
  22                                                  11       0   3     2     6
  23                                                   4       1   1     2     0
                   Total                             334 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start             07:30
         AM Peak Hour Total                36
         AM Peak Hour Factor            52.94 %
         PM Peak Hour Start             15:30
         PM Peak Hour Total                35
         PM Peak Hour Factor            58.33 %

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                     254
Site Name                  Bell between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction               St. Louis, MO
Study Type                 Volume (ch2)
Location Code              309560
Direction                  West
Date                       9/26/2012
Real Time                  09:50
Start Date                 9/26/2012
Start Time                 10:00
Sample Time                00:15
Operator Number            69
Machine Number             9

Friday, September 28, 2012

                      Channel 1                               Channel 2                    Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                     HR                               HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00                                                   3       2   1     0     0
  01                                                   4       0   3     1     0
  02                                                   3       2   0     1     0
  03                                                   1       0   0     1     0
  04                                                   4       0   0     4     0
  05                                                   1       1   0     0     0
  06                                                  10       0   2     5     3
  07                                                  28       5   8     7     8
  08                                                  26       4  12     6     4
  09                                                  29       8   8    10     3
  10                                                  38       8  10    13     7
  11                                                  26       5   6     6     9
  12                                                  36       6   6     8    16
  13                                                  33    14     8     7     4
  14                                                  50       9  20    10    11
  15                                                  37       7   6    15     9
  16                                                  25    12     5     4     4
  17                                                  26       8   9     6     3
  18                                                  14       8   1     2     3
  19                                                  14       3   5     3     3
  20                                                  15       5   4     2     4
  21                                                  12       2   5     3     2
  22                                                   8       2   2     1     3
  23                                                   2       1   0     1     0
                   Total                             445 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start             10:00
         AM Peak Hour Total                38
         AM Peak Hour Factor            73.08 %
         PM Peak Hour Start             14:00
         PM Peak Hour Total                50
         PM Peak Hour Factor            62.50 %

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                     255
Site Name                  Bell between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction               St. Louis, MO
Study Type                 Volume (ch2)
Location Code              309560
Direction                  West
Date                       9/26/2012
Real Time                  09:50
Start Date                 9/26/2012
Start Time                 10:00
Sample Time                00:15
Operator Number            69
Machine Number             9

Saturday, September 29, 2012

                      Channel 1                               Channel 2                    Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                     HR                               HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00                                                   3       0   0     0     3
  01                                                   4       2   1     1     0
  02                                                   6       1   0     2     3
  03                                                   2       0   1     1     0
  04                                                   1       0   0     0     1
  05                                                   0       0   0     0     0
  06                                                   4       0   0     1     3
  07                                                  11       0   4     4     3
  08                                                  21       3   5     3    10
  09                                                  12       4   2     0     6
  10                                                  26       7   5     7     7
  11                                                  22       1  11     7     3
  12                                                  27       7   9     5     6
  13                                                  19       8   4     4     3
  14                                                  21       5   3     7     6
  15                                                  24       5   6     7     6
  16                                                  25       3  10     7     5
  17                                                  16       4   4     3     5
  18                                                  21       6   3     4     8
  19                                                  20       7   5     3     5
  20                                                  15       5   8     2     0
  21                                                  13       2   7     2     2
  22                                                  17       2   9     5     1
  23                                                   3       1   2     0     0
                   Total                             333 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start             10:00
         AM Peak Hour Total                26
         AM Peak Hour Factor            92.86 %
         PM Peak Hour Start             12:15
         PM Peak Hour Total                28
         PM Peak Hour Factor            77.78 %

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                     256
Site Name                  Bell between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction               St. Louis, MO
Study Type                 Volume (ch2)
Location Code              309560
Direction                  West
Date                       9/26/2012
Real Time                  09:50
Start Date                 9/26/2012
Start Time                 10:00
Sample Time                00:15
Operator Number            69
Machine Number             9

Sunday, September 30, 2012

                      Channel 1                               Channel 2                    Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                     HR                               HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00                                                   3       1   1     0     1
  01                                                   2       0   0     1     1
  02                                                   2       1   0     0     1
  03                                                   2       2   0     0     0
  04                                                   1       0   1     0     0
  05                                                   1       0   0     1     0
  06                                                   1       0   0     0     1
  07                                                   1       0   0     0     1
  08                                                   4       1   1     1     1
  09                                                   9       0   3     3     3
  10                                                   7       3   2     1     1
  11                                                   6       3   2     1     0
  12                                                   9       2   3     3     1
  13                                                  13       3   3     2     5
  14                                                  12       2   1     2     7
  15                                                  10       2   6     2     0
  16                                                  11       5   1     2     3
  17                                                  16       6   6     3     1
  18                                                   6       2   2     0     2
  19                                                  10       3   5     1     1
  20                                                   5       0   3     0     2
  21                                                   9       4   1     1     3
  22                                                   2       0   1     1     0
  23                                                   3       1   1     0     1
                   Total                             145 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start             09:15
         AM Peak Hour Total                12
         AM Peak Hour Factor           100.00 %
         PM Peak Hour Start             16:45
         PM Peak Hour Total                18
         PM Peak Hour Factor            75.00 %

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                     257
Site Name                  Bell between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction               St. Louis, MO
Study Type                 Volume (ch2)
Location Code              309560
Direction                  West
Date                       9/26/2012
Real Time                  09:50
Start Date                 9/26/2012
Start Time                 10:00
Sample Time                00:15
Operator Number            69
Machine Number             9

Monday, October 01, 2012

                      Channel 1                               Channel 2                    Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                     HR                               HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00                                                   0       0   0     0     0
  01                                                   0       0   0     0     0
  02                                                   1       0   0     0     1
  03                                                   1       0   0     1     0
  04                                                   1       0   0     0     1
  05                                                   4       0   0     0     4
  06                                                   8       1   0     3     4
  07                                                  28       6   4     5    13
  08                                                  42    14    11     6    11
  09                                                  24       9   4     6     5
  10                                                  27       4  12     5     6
  11                                                  28       9   8     6     5
  12                                                  21       3   2    11     5
  13                                                  37    10     8    10     9
  14                                                  30       7  11     4     8
  15                                                  37       5   9    17     6
  16                                                  38    10    13     9     6
  17                                                  24       4   8     9     3
  18                                                   9       5   1     2     1
  19                                                  12       3   0     3     6
  20                                                   8       4   2     2     0
  21                                                   6       3   0     2     1
  22                                                   1       0   1     0     0
  23                                                   4       0   2     2     0
                   Total                             391 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start             07:45
         AM Peak Hour Total                44
         AM Peak Hour Factor            78.57 %
         PM Peak Hour Start             15:30
         PM Peak Hour Total                46
         PM Peak Hour Factor            67.65 %

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                     258
Site Name                  Bell between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction               St. Louis, MO
Study Type                 Volume (ch2)
Location Code              309560
Direction                  West
Date                       9/26/2012
Real Time                  09:50
Start Date                 9/26/2012
Start Time                 10:00
Sample Time                00:15
Operator Number            69
Machine Number             9

Tuesday, October 02, 2012

                      Channel 1                               Channel 2                    Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                     HR                               HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00                                                   2       0   2     0     0
  01                                                   1       0   0     0     1
  02                                                   1       0   0     1     0
  03                                                   0       0   0     0     0
  04                                                   2       0   0     1     1
  05                                                   1       0   0     0     1
  06                                                  12       0   1     2     9
  07                                                  26       7  11     2     6
  08                                                  36       8  14     6     8
  09                                                  29    17     1     4     7
  10                                                  33    10    12     7     4
  11                                                  33       8   9    12     4
  12                                                  36    13     9     5     9
  13                                                  22       5   4     8     5
  14                                                  43       3  14    14    12
  15                                                  25       6   8     5     6
  16                                                  27       9   9     2     7
  17                                                  26       6  11     8     1
  18                                                  21       5   3     8     5
  19                                                  16       4   4     2     6
  20                                                   8       1   4     3     0
  21                                                   7       3   2     1     1
  22                                                   4       1   0     2     1
  23                                                   1       1   0     0     0
                   Total                             412 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start             08:15
         AM Peak Hour Total                45
         AM Peak Hour Factor            66.18 %
         PM Peak Hour Start             14:15
         PM Peak Hour Total                46
         PM Peak Hour Factor            82.14 %

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                     259
Site Name                  Bell between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction               St. Louis, MO
Study Type                 Volume (ch2)
Location Code              309560
Direction                  West
Date                       9/26/2012
Real Time                  09:50
Start Date                 9/26/2012
Start Time                 10:00
Sample Time                00:15
Operator Number            69
Machine Number             9

Wednesday, October 03, 2012

                      Channel 1                               Channel 2                    Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                     HR                               HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00                                                   0       0   0     0     0
  01                                                   1       0   0     0     1
  02                                                   1       0   0     0     1
  03                                                   1       0   0     1     0
  04                                                   1       0   0     1     0
  05                                                   1       0   0     1     0
  06                                                  14       3   1     5     5
  07                                                  34       8   6     4    16
  08                                                  42    16     8    10     8
  09                                                  29       8   8     6     7
  10                                                  43       3   9    15    16
  11                                                  19       2   5     3     9
  12                                                  22       2   6     6     8
  13                                                  28       9  10     3     6
  14                                                  21       0  12     9     0
  15                                                  31    11     7     8     5
  16                                                  30    11     9     8     2
  17                                                  22       7   8     4     3
  18                                                  15       4   5     4     2
  19                                                   9       0   6     2     1
  20                                                   6       2   2     1     1
  21                                                   1       0   0     1     0
  22                                                   5       1   0     3     1
  23                                                   5       0   4     0     1
                   Total                             381 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start             07:45
         AM Peak Hour Total                50
         AM Peak Hour Factor            78.13 %
         PM Peak Hour Start             12:30
         PM Peak Hour Total                33
         PM Peak Hour Factor            82.50 %

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                     260
Site Name                  Bell between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction               St. Louis, MO
Study Type                 Volume (ch2)
Location Code              309560
Direction                  West
Date                       9/26/2012
Real Time                  09:50
Start Date                 9/26/2012
Start Time                 10:00
Sample Time                00:15
Operator Number            69
Machine Number             9

Thursday, October 04, 2012

                      Channel 1                               Channel 2                       Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                     HR                                  HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total     00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00                                                    3       0     1     2     0
  01                                                    1       1     0     0     0
  02                                                    0       0     0     0     0
  03                                                    0       0     0     0     0
  04                                                    0       0     0     0     0
  05                                                    4       1     1     0     2
  06                                                   11       3     2     2     4
  07                                                   27       7    12     2     6
  08                                                   33       9    13     5     6
  09                                                   11      10     1     0     0
  10                                                   25       7    12     6
  11
  12
  13
  14
  15
  16
  17
  18
  19
  20
  21
  22
  23
                   Total                             115 Total                                Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start             08:15
         AM Peak Hour Total                34
         AM Peak Hour Factor            65.38 %
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                        261
Site Name                   Delmar Blvd between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction                St. Louis, MO
Study Type                  Volume (ch1)
Location Code               129030
Direction                   East
Date                        9/26/2012
Real Time                   10:20
Start Date                  9/26/2012
Start Time                  11:00
Sample Time                 00:15
Operator Number             69
Machine Number              29

Wednesday, September 26, 2012

                      Channel 1                                Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                       HR                                HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00          Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00
  01
  02
  03
  04
  05
  06
  07
  08
  09
  10
  11           67    11        12    18     26
  12           75    20        17    21     17
  13           82    22         7    28     25
  14           74    11        16    26     21
  15          129    34        53    24     18
  16           81    15        24    13     29
  17           57    15        12    16     14
  18           51       8      12    13     18
  19           50    11         8     7     24
  20           54    17        18    10      9
  21           22    11         7     2      2
  22            8       3       2     2      1
  23            6       1       4     0      1
              756 Total                                     Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start               11:00
         AM Peak Hour Total                  67
         AM Peak Hour Factor              64.42 %
         PM Peak Hour Start               14:30
         PM Peak Hour Total                 134
         PM Peak Hour Factor              63.21 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                        262
Site Name               Delmar Blvd between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           129030
Direction               East
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               10:20
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              11:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          29

Thursday, September 27, 2012

                     Channel 1                            Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                  HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00      Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00            2       1   0     0     1
  01            0       0   0     0     0
  02            0       0   0     0     0
  03            0       0   0     0     0
  04            4       1   0     2     1
  05            7       0   2     0     5
  06           32       3  13     8     8
  07           81    13    35    21    12
  08           41    11    11    10     9
  09           23       7   5     7     4
  10           46    14     8    10    14
  11           46    14     6    14    12
  12           63    13    18    17    15
  13           59    23    15    14     7
  14           48       9   6    15    18
  15          107    29    52    17     9
  16           73    14    15    23    21
  17           67    17    15    16    19
  18           56    17    12    14    13
  19           43    17     9     6    11
  20           17       7   5     2     3
  21           15       5   4     3     3
  22           47       2  23    21     1
  23            7       3   1     1     2
              884 Total                                Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          07:00
         AM Peak Hour Total             81
         AM Peak Hour Factor         57.86 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          14:45
         PM Peak Hour Total            116
         PM Peak Hour Factor         55.77 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                   263
Site Name               Delmar Blvd between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           129030
Direction               East
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               10:20
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              11:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          29

Friday, September 28, 2012

                     Channel 1                            Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                  HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00      Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00            1       0   0     0     1
  01            0       0   0     0     0
  02            1       1   0     0     0
  03            0       0   0     0     0
  04            6       2   1     2     1
  05            4       1   2     0     1
  06           37       5  10     6    16
  07           69       7  32    19    11
  08           35    10     4     9    12
  09           79    12    20    24    23
  10           37       5  12    13     7
  11           78    14    19    20    25
  12          103    21    32    29    21
  13           66    27     9    14    16
  14           71    10    23    17    21
  15          164    41    73    23    27
  16           95    29    24    31    11
  17           73    13    24    25    11
  18           47    15    16     8     8
  19           31    13    18     0     0
  20           10       0   5     2     3
  21           15       4   5     3     3
  22           10       3   3     2     2
  23            7       1   2     2     2
             1039 Total                                Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          09:00
         AM Peak Hour Total             79
         AM Peak Hour Factor         82.29 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          15:00
         PM Peak Hour Total            164
         PM Peak Hour Factor         56.16 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                   264
Site Name               Delmar Blvd between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           129030
Direction               East
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               10:20
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              11:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          29

Saturday, September 29, 2012

                     Channel 1                            Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                  HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00      Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00            2       1   0     1     0
  01            1       0   1     0     0
  02            3       1   0     1     1
  03            0       0   0     0     0
  04            1       0   0     1     0
  05            5       1   1     0     3
  06           14       2   4     5     3
  07           24       5   7     2    10
  08           31       7   9     7     8
  09           51    10    11    15    15
  10           59       8  18    21    12
  11          112    18    27    26    41
  12          126    34    18    35    39
  13          127    27    30    37    33
  14          154    34    52    32    36
  15          140    33    35    35    37
  16          133    37    33    34    29
  17          160    32    51    35    42
  18          229    57    50    57    65
  19          192    76    55    31    30
  20           52    17    19     6    10
  21           44    15     3    12    14
  22           52    10    26    12     4
  23           14       4   3     4     3
             1726 Total                                Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          11:00
         AM Peak Hour Total            112
         AM Peak Hour Factor         68.29 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          18:30
         PM Peak Hour Total            253
         PM Peak Hour Factor         83.22 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                   265
Site Name               Delmar Blvd between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           129030
Direction               East
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               10:20
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              11:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          29

Sunday, September 30, 2012

                     Channel 1                            Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                  HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00      Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00            3       0   0     1     2
  01            0       0   0     0     0
  02            3       0   0     1     2
  03            1       0   0     0     1
  04            0       0   0     0     0
  05            9       1   2     2     4
  06            6       0   2     2     2
  07            5       1   2     1     1
  08           11       2   2     5     2
  09           11       3   3     2     3
  10           43       5  12    15    11
  11           46       8   7    22     9
  12           69    22    15    27     5
  13            0       0   0     0     0
  14           47       0   0    24    23
  15           62    14    17    14    17
  16           22    21     1     0     0
  17            5       0   0     0     5
  18           62    17    15    14    16
  19           34    17     6     7     4
  20           11       4   3     2     2
  21            5       0   1     3     1
  22            7       2   1     2     2
  23            2       0   0     0     2
              464 Total                                Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          10:45
         AM Peak Hour Total             48
         AM Peak Hour Factor         54.55 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          14:30
         PM Peak Hour Total             78
         PM Peak Hour Factor         81.25 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                   266
Site Name               Delmar Blvd between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           129030
Direction               East
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               10:20
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              11:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          29

Monday, October 01, 2012

                     Channel 1                            Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                  HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00      Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00            1       1   0     0     0
  01            2       1   0     0     1
  02            1       0   0     1     0
  03            0       0   0     0     0
  04            4       2   0     1     1
  05            5       1   2     0     2
  06           31       4  12     7     8
  07           77    10    31    27     9
  08           18       4   2     5     7
  09           34       4   7    11    12
  10           26       6   5    10     5
  11           42       4  14    12    12
  12           39       8   6    15    10
  13           54    12    17    14    11
  14           38       4  10    15     9
  15          127    26    70    20    11
  16           40    10     9    12     9
  17           43       9  14     7    13
  18           34    12    11    10     1
  19           59    30    19     8     2
  20           10       4   3     0     3
  21           16       2   9     2     3
  22            7       2   2     3     0
  23            4       1   1     1     1
              712 Total                                Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          07:00
         AM Peak Hour Total             77
         AM Peak Hour Factor         62.10 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          15:00
         PM Peak Hour Total            127
         PM Peak Hour Factor         45.36 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                   267
Site Name               Delmar Blvd between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           129030
Direction               East
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               10:20
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              11:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          29

Tuesday, October 02, 2012

                     Channel 1                            Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                  HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00      Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00            0       0   0     0     0
  01            1       0   0     0     1
  02            0       0   0     0     0
  03            0       0   0     0     0
  04            4       2   0     1     1
  05            3       0   1     1     1
  06           28       5   6     9     8
  07           74       9  31    23    11
  08           23    11     3     4     5
  09           25       9   8     5     3
  10           41       3   9     9    20
  11           60    11    16    19    14
  12           60    12    11    23    14
  13           59    12    21    16    10
  14           86    25    20    11    30
  15          148    28    80    23    17
  16           65    17    12    20    16
  17           75    23    19    21    12
  18           44       7  13    17     7
  19           18       3   8     7     0
  20           11       2   6     1     2
  21            4       0   1     1     2
  22            6       1   3     1     1
  23            6       1   3     0     2
              841 Total                                Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          07:15
         AM Peak Hour Total             76
         AM Peak Hour Factor         61.29 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          14:45
         PM Peak Hour Total            161
         PM Peak Hour Factor         50.31 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                   268
Site Name               Delmar Blvd between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           129030
Direction               East
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               10:20
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              11:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          29

Wednesday, October 03, 2012

                     Channel 1                            Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                  HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00      Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00            0       0   0     0     0
  01            1       0   0     1     0
  02            1       0   1     0     0
  03            1       0   1     0     0
  04            4       1   1     1     1
  05            8       2   2     0     4
  06           25       4   7     3    11
  07           80    16    27    27    10
  08           30       5   9     5    11
  09           35       8   6    11    10
  10           39       6   6    10    17
  11           71    14    15    23    19
  12           71    19    13    16    23
  13           69    18    22    18    11
  14           77    17    17    19    24
  15          133    36    60    22    15
  16           60    11    15    18    16
  17           32    17    12     0     3
  18           42       9  17     5    11
  19           22       5   2     9     6
  20           18       4   5     4     5
  21            7       1   2     3     1
  22            7       2   1     3     1
  23            4       2   1     0     1
              837 Total                                Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          06:45
         AM Peak Hour Total             81
         AM Peak Hour Factor         75.00 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          14:45
         PM Peak Hour Total            142
         PM Peak Hour Factor         59.17 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                   269
Site Name                 Delmar Blvd between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction              St. Louis, MO
Study Type                Volume (ch1)
Location Code             129030
Direction                 East
Date                      9/26/2012
Real Time                 10:20
Start Date                9/26/2012
Start Time                11:00
Sample Time               00:15
Operator Number           69
Machine Number            29

Thursday, October 04, 2012

                      Channel 1                             Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                    HR                                HR
 Begin     Total    00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00      Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00            0       0     0     0     0
  01            1       0     1     0     0
  02            2       1     0     0     1
  03            1       1     0     0     0
  04            3       1     0     1     1
  05            5       1     2     0     2
  06           34       6    11     6    11
  07           77      17    26    23    11
  08           24       3     4     6    11
  09           30       9     1     8    12
  10
  11
  12
  13
  14
  15
  16
  17
  18
  19
  20
  21
  22
  23
              177 Total                                  Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start            06:45
         AM Peak Hour Total               77
         AM Peak Hour Factor           74.04 %
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                     270
Site Name                   Delmar Blvd between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction                St. Louis, MO
Study Type                  Volume (ch1)
Location Code               106230
Direction                   West
Date                        9/26/2012
Real Time                   10:55
Start Date                  9/26/2012
Start Time                  11:00
Sample Time                 00:15
Operator Number             69
Machine Number              6

Wednesday, September 26, 2012

                      Channel 1                                Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                       HR                                HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00          Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00
  01
  02
  03
  04
  05
  06
  07
  08
  09
  10
  11           91    25        13    24     29
  12          104    27        27    28     22
  13           89    20        20    28     21
  14          110    18        31    34     27
  15          138    23        27    55     33
  16          103    29        19    21     34
  17          100    31        26    20     23
  18           91    20        18    22     31
  19          100    25        47    13     15
  20           46    14        11    15      6
  21           34    15         9     6      4
  22           31       7       8     7      9
  23            9       1       6     0      2
             1046 Total                                     Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start               11:00
         AM Peak Hour Total                  91
         AM Peak Hour Factor              78.45 %
         PM Peak Hour Start               15:15
         PM Peak Hour Total                 144
         PM Peak Hour Factor              65.45 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                        271
Site Name               Delmar Blvd between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           106230
Direction               West
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               10:55
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              11:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          6

Thursday, September 27, 2012

                      Channel 1                           Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                  HR                                HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00           10       4    4     0     2
  01             7      5    1     0     1
  02             4      2    1     0     1
  03             3      0    1     2     0
  04             1      0    0     0     1
  05           14       3    1     1     9
  06           32       6    4    11    11
  07           75     16    19    18    22
  08           88     30    16    18    24
  09           64     14    16    18    16
  10           95     23    21    26    25
  11           76     20    18    18    20
  12          111     16    27    35    33
  13           96     23    23    25    25
  14          112     20    29    21    42
  15          167     38    27    61    41
  16           88     22    26    16    24
  17          137     35    38    37    27
  18           79     24    17    20    18
  19           63     22    14    14    13
  20           44     13    16     3    12
  21           31       9   13     3     6
  22           81       7    4    10    60
  23           18       5    5     5     3
             1496 Total                                Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          10:00
         AM Peak Hour Total             95
         AM Peak Hour Factor         91.35 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          14:45
         PM Peak Hour Total            168
         PM Peak Hour Factor         68.85 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                   272
Site Name               Delmar Blvd between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           106230
Direction               West
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               10:55
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              11:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          6

Friday, September 28, 2012

                      Channel 1                           Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                  HR                                HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00           10       2    1     6     1
  01             3      0    1     1     1
  02             1      0    0     1     0
  03             4      0    2     2     0
  04             6      0    0     3     3
  05           19       5    4     3     7
  06           25       1    8    10     6
  07           81     11    20    24    26
  08           71     25    11    22    13
  09           88     11    34    19    24
  10           87     28    19    20    20
  11          134     30    38    32    34
  12          170     36    54    38    42
  13           19       6    1     0    12
  14           89     22    25    10    32
  15          154     27    17    83    27
  16           65       7   10    31    17
  17           60     23    16    12     9
  18           36     21     6     3     6
  19           18       3    2     6     7
  20           16       1    7     0     8
  21           21       9    3     0     9
  22           22       6    6     7     3
  23           13       1    4     6     2
             1212 Total                                Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          11:00
         AM Peak Hour Total            134
         AM Peak Hour Factor         88.16 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          12:00
         PM Peak Hour Total            170
         PM Peak Hour Factor         78.70 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                   273
Site Name               Delmar Blvd between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           106230
Direction               West
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               10:55
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              11:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          6

Saturday, September 29, 2012

                      Channel 1                           Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                  HR                                HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00           14       2    2     6     4
  01             0      0    0     0     0
  02             2      1    0     0     1
  03             0      0    0     0     0
  04             0      0    0     0     0
  05             5      1    4     0     0
  06           12       1    7     4     0
  07           10       3    1     0     6
  08           20       3    7     3     7
  09           17       5    4     2     6
  10           23       8    5     5     5
  11           31       8   12     1    10
  12           41     10     5    11    15
  13           50       4   12    22    12
  14           41     14     2    12    13
  15           14       2    7     3     2
  16           10       0    0    10     0
  17           13       4    3     3     3
  18           24       4   12     6     2
  19           35       7    6    14     8
  20             8      3    1     0     4
  21             2      0    0     2     0
  22           17       0   12     2     3
  23           20       4    4     5     7
              409 Total                                Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          11:00
         AM Peak Hour Total             31
         AM Peak Hour Factor         64.58 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          13:15
         PM Peak Hour Total             60
         PM Peak Hour Factor         68.18 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                   274
Site Name               Delmar Blvd between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           106230
Direction               West
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               10:55
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              11:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          6

Sunday, September 30, 2012

                      Channel 1                           Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                  HR                                HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00           27       6   10     3     8
  01           14       6    2     6     0
  02           10       4    0     4     2
  03             4      2    1     0     1
  04             3      1    0     0     2
  05             2      0    1     0     1
  06             7      4    1     2     0
  07             5      0    2     2     1
  08           10       2    2     2     4
  09           24       4    8     4     8
  10           24       3    1     7    13
  11           34       6    3    16     9
  12           51     12    11    22     6
  13           47     16    12    10     9
  14           68       4   22    24    18
  15           36       8   10     8    10
  16           33       6    1    20     6
  17           36     20     5     6     5
  18           23       6    5     8     4
  19           14       4    3     3     4
  20           42     22     0     8    12
  21           28       8   11     4     5
  22           21       4    8     5     4
  23             6      3    1     2     0
              569 Total                                Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          10:45
         AM Peak Hour Total             38
         AM Peak Hour Factor         59.38 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          14:15
         PM Peak Hour Total             72
         PM Peak Hour Factor         75.00 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                   275
Site Name               Delmar Blvd between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           106230
Direction               West
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               10:55
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              11:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          6

Monday, October 01, 2012

                     Channel 1                            Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                  HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00      Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00            5       3   1     0     1
  01            8       0   0     4     4
  02            5       4   0     0     1
  03            4       0   1     3     0
  04            4       1   0     1     2
  05            8       1   2     1     4
  06           23       3   4     9     7
  07           61    13    11    10    27
  08           55    18     8    15    14
  09           79    16    20    19    24
  10           91    17    27    26    21
  11          109    18    37    27    27
  12          147    41    22    50    34
  13          120    26    34    26    34
  14           94    10    11    27    46
  15          189    33    31    82    43
  16          106    39    29    21    17
  17           96    24    33    27    12
  18           35       5  11     7    12
  19           31       7   5     9    10
  20           10       2   4     4     0
  21           22       4   3     8     7
  22            7       2   0     5     0
  23            5       3   2     0     0
             1314 Total                                Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          11:00
         AM Peak Hour Total            109
         AM Peak Hour Factor         73.65 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          15:15
         PM Peak Hour Total            195
         PM Peak Hour Factor         59.45 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                   276
Site Name               Delmar Blvd between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           106230
Direction               West
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               10:55
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              11:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          6

Tuesday, October 02, 2012

                     Channel 1                            Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                  HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00      Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00            3       1   0     0     2
  01            3       0   1     0     2
  02            3       0   0     3     0
  03            3       0   3     0     0
  04            2       0   0     0     2
  05            9       2   2     2     3
  06           17       2   4     4     7
  07           51       5   7    11    28
  08           47    16    17     8     6
  09           61    14    20    18     9
  10           64    15    16    17    16
  11          117    26    34    28    29
  12           97    19    32    21    25
  13          139    44    29    45    21
  14          155    41    34    50    30
  15          190    43    29    82    36
  16          129    40    36    21    32
  17          112    24    34    41    13
  18           82    20    17    23    22
  19           61    16    11    23    11
  20           35       6  19     7     3
  21           24    13     5     2     4
  22           14       7   2     5     0
  23           11       5   5     0     1
             1429 Total                                Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          11:00
         AM Peak Hour Total            117
         AM Peak Hour Factor         86.03 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          15:30
         PM Peak Hour Total            194
         PM Peak Hour Factor         59.15 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                   277
Site Name               Delmar Blvd between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           106230
Direction               West
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               10:55
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              11:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          6

Wednesday, October 03, 2012

                     Channel 1                            Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                  HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00      Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00            9       6   0     1     2
  01            1       0   0     0     1
  02            1       1   0     0     0
  03           10       0   1     4     5
  04            6       2   2     0     2
  05           16       3   2     9     2
  06           27       3   9     2    13
  07           57       8  14    20    15
  08           64    25    21     9     9
  09           75    13    18    26    18
  10           91    23    23    25    20
  11          132    30    31    26    45
  12          141    36    24    43    38
  13          166    47    42    37    40
  14          168    31    44    36    57
  15          267    39    40   120    68
  16           92    43    20    19    10
  17           29       9   9     8     3
  18           11       5   4     1     1
  19           11       5   0     3     3
  20           20       5   6     6     3
  21           28       7   8     6     7
  22           16       2   2     5     7
  23           10       1   7     2     0
             1448 Total                                Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          11:00
         AM Peak Hour Total            132
         AM Peak Hour Factor         73.33 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          15:15
         PM Peak Hour Total            271
         PM Peak Hour Factor         56.46 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                   278
Site Name                 Delmar Blvd between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction              St. Louis, MO
Study Type                Volume (ch1)
Location Code             106230
Direction                 West
Date                      9/26/2012
Real Time                 10:55
Start Date                9/26/2012
Start Time                11:00
Sample Time               00:15
Operator Number           69
Machine Number            6

Thursday, October 04, 2012

                      Channel 1                             Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                    HR                                HR
 Begin     Total    00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00      Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00            5       2     1     0     2
  01            2       1     1     0     0
  02            0       0     0     0     0
  03            1       0     0     0     1
  04            4       1     0     1     2
  05           11       2     4     3     2
  06           52      16     7     9    20
  07           54       7    21     5    21
  08           64      36     6    15     7
  09           88      20    14    16    38
  10           47      24    23
  11
  12
  13
  14
  15
  16
  17
  18
  19
  20
  21
  22
  23
              328 Total                                  Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start            09:30
         AM Peak Hour Total              101
         AM Peak Hour Factor           66.45 %
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                     279
Site Name                   Enright Ave between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction                St. Louis, MO
Study Type                  Volume (ch1)
Location Code               222200
Direction                   East
Date                        9/26/2012
Real Time                   10:15
Start Date                  9/26/2012
Start Time                  11:00
Sample Time                 00:15
Operator Number             69
Machine Number              22

Wednesday, September 26, 2012

                      Channel 1                                 Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                        HR                                HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00           Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00
  01
  02
  03
  04
  05
  06
  07
  08
  09
  10
  11          136    33        36     32     35
  12           91    30        17     24     20
  13          114    28        30     24     32
  14          150    28        45     42     35
  15          169    40        56     39     34
  16          132    36        35     29     32
  17          113    29        28     22     34
  18           81    22        28     19     12
  19           49    11        13     11     14
  20           31       7      10      6      8
  21           22       5       9      5      3
  22           24       3      10      2      9
  23           45       8       7     16     14
             1157 Total                                      Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start                11:00
         AM Peak Hour Total                  136
         AM Peak Hour Factor               94.44 %
         PM Peak Hour Start                14:30
         PM Peak Hour Total                  173
         PM Peak Hour Factor               77.23 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                         280
Site Name               Enright Ave between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           222200
Direction               East
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               10:15
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              11:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          22

Thursday, September 27, 2012

                      Channel 1                            Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                   HR                                HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00      Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00           16     11     1     2     2
  01             6      1    1     4     0
  02             4      1    2     1     0
  03             5      1    1     1     2
  04             3      0    0     3     0
  05           18       1    5     3     9
  06           45       8    5    15    17
  07          122     20    27    29    46
  08          119     34    35    24    26
  09          130     27    30    41    32
  10          137     45    38    24    30
  11          168     39    44    49    36
  12          135     37    30    30    38
  13          125     30    34    28    33
  14          158     34    39    45    40
  15          157     44    34    45    34
  16          169     61    40    37    31
  17          112     32    28    23    29
  18           89     28    24    19    18
  19           84     18    20    23    23
  20           35     11     8     6    10
  21           27       9   12     3     3
  22           51     11    14    18     8
  23           27       6    3     7    11
             1942 Total                                 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          11:00
         AM Peak Hour Total            168
         AM Peak Hour Factor         85.71 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          15:30
         PM Peak Hour Total            180
         PM Peak Hour Factor         73.77 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                    281
Site Name               Enright Ave between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           222200
Direction               East
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               10:15
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              11:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          22

Friday, September 28, 2012

                      Channel 1                            Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                   HR                                HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00      Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00           21     10     4     4     3
  01             8      3    1     1     3
  02             4      2    0     1     1
  03             2      0    0     2     0
  04             6      0    2     1     3
  05           18       0    2     7     9
  06           46       7    8    17    14
  07          147     24    45    43    35
  08          152     32    42    35    43
  09          192     32    47    47    66
  10          187     49    46    45    47
  11          198     46    58    44    50
  12          201     40    44    60    57
  13          166     36    51    41    38
  14          164     47    40    46    31
  15          188     45    47    57    39
  16          152     36    50    38    28
  17          100     30    22    22    26
  18           76     22    23    16    15
  19           70     19    17    17    17
  20           44     14    10     9    11
  21           37     10     8    12     7
  22           44       9   18     9     8
  23           33     10     6     6    11
             2256 Total                                 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          09:15
         AM Peak Hour Total            209
         AM Peak Hour Factor         79.17 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          12:30
         PM Peak Hour Total            204
         PM Peak Hour Factor         85.00 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                    282
Site Name               Enright Ave between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           222200
Direction               East
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               10:15
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              11:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          22

Saturday, September 29, 2012

                      Channel 1                            Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                   HR                                HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00      Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00           24     10     6     3     5
  01           14       4    1     6     3
  02             6      2    3     1     0
  03             7      1    2     1     3
  04             6      2    3     0     1
  05           10       1    2     3     4
  06           26       4    3    10     9
  07           61     10    11    18    22
  08           91     27    22    25    17
  09           62     16    12    17    17
  10           80     20    22    21    17
  11          108     28    22    30    28
  12          108     22    26    31    29
  13           98     20    30    25    23
  14          109     39    16    24    30
  15          126     29    32    37    28
  16          117     24    36    32    25
  17          150     31    46    36    37
  18          151     31    45    36    39
  19          205     43    53    71    38
  20          126     40    29    24    33
  21          108     29    31    27    21
  22          167     70    38    39    20
  23           52     19    10    12    11
             2012 Total                                 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          11:00
         AM Peak Hour Total            108
         AM Peak Hour Factor         90.00 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          18:45
         PM Peak Hour Total            206
         PM Peak Hour Factor         72.54 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                    283
Site Name               Enright Ave between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           222200
Direction               East
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               10:15
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              11:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          22

Sunday, September 30, 2012

                      Channel 1                            Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                   HR                                HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00      Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00           18       7    3     6     2
  01           20       8    4     6     2
  02           15       1    9     2     3
  03             2      0    1     1     0
  04             4      1    0     3     0
  05           12       1    3     2     6
  06           15       2    7     1     5
  07           24       5    2     8     9
  08           29       6   11     4     8
  09           25       9    4     6     6
  10           48     12    11    14    11
  11           38     11    10    11     6
  12           39       8   12     7    12
  13           75     16    19    16    24
  14           99     16    30    32    21
  15           63     14    15    14    20
  16           69     23    14    10    22
  17           72     34    12    10    16
  18           35       4   18     7     6
  19           44       9    9    12    14
  20           28     12     7     5     4
  21           21       9    2     6     4
  22           16       5    5     3     3
  23           27       6    7     6     8
              838 Total                                 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          10:00
         AM Peak Hour Total             48
         AM Peak Hour Factor         85.71 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          13:45
         PM Peak Hour Total            102
         PM Peak Hour Factor         79.69 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                    284
Site Name               Enright Ave between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           222200
Direction               East
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               10:15
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              11:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          22

Monday, October 01, 2012

                      Channel 1                            Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                   HR                                HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00      Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00           11       3    2     5     1
  01             8      0    1     3     4
  02             1      0    0     0     1
  03             0      0    0     0     0
  04             4      1    3     0     0
  05           20       1    7     5     7
  06           42     10     8    10    14
  07          143     29    26    41    47
  08          167     37    47    44    39
  09          163     39    45    37    42
  10          159     34    43    38    44
  11          171     50    40    45    36
  12          169     41    44    38    46
  13          146     40    37    42    27
  14          196     48    54    50    44
  15          194     50    65    44    35
  16          175     44    54    41    36
  17          116     30    28    35    23
  18           85     19    22    19    25
  19          123     28    37    34    24
  20           39     20     7     5     7
  21           40       9    9    16     6
  22           30       9    9     5     7
  23           25       3    7     4    11
             2227 Total                                 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          10:45
         AM Peak Hour Total            179
         AM Peak Hour Factor         89.50 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          14:30
         PM Peak Hour Total            209
         PM Peak Hour Factor         80.38 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                    285
Site Name               Enright Ave between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           222200
Direction               East
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               10:15
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              11:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          22

Tuesday, October 02, 2012

                      Channel 1                            Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                   HR                                HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00      Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00           15       4    6     2     3
  01           10       4    1     2     3
  02             9      1    2     4     2
  03             3      0    1     1     1
  04             8      1    3     1     3
  05           27       0    4     9    14
  06           49       8   12    10    19
  07          138     19    29    38    52
  08          146     45    41    29    31
  09          148     40    44    31    33
  10          157     44    35    44    34
  11          176     42    51    40    43
  12          174     47    33    42    52
  13          137     52    35    17    33
  14          141     24    32    46    39
  15          199     48    44    60    47
  16          177     43    46    47    41
  17          119     33    31    31    24
  18           90     27    28    18    17
  19           75     20    22    17    16
  20           36     17    10     2     7
  21           20       5    7     2     6
  22           16       7    1     3     5
  23           36       7    6     7    16
             2106 Total                                 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          07:30
         AM Peak Hour Total            176
         AM Peak Hour Factor         84.62 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          15:00
         PM Peak Hour Total            199
         PM Peak Hour Factor         82.92 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                    286
Site Name               Enright Ave between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           222200
Direction               East
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               10:15
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              11:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          22

Wednesday, October 03, 2012

                      Channel 1                            Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                   HR                                HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00      Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00           17     12     1     1     3
  01             5      4    0     1     0
  02             7      1    2     4     0
  03             1      0    0     0     1
  04             4      1    0     2     1
  05           23       2    5     6    10
  06           43       8    9    14    12
  07          154     21    43    54    36
  08          132     33    34    28    37
  09          154     35    29    50    40
  10          177     37    41    53    46
  11           13     13     0     0     0
  12             0      0    0     0     0
  13             1      0    1     0     0
  14          102       0    4    46    52
  15          202     45    64    49    44
  16          166     47    35    42    42
  17          138     33    36    27    42
  18          108     36    32    21    19
  19           71     22    20    15    14
  20           42     12    13    10     7
  21           28       7    6     5    10
  22           17       7    7     2     1
  23           40       9    8     2    21
             1645 Total                                 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          10:00
         AM Peak Hour Total            177
         AM Peak Hour Factor         83.49 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          14:45
         PM Peak Hour Total            210
         PM Peak Hour Factor         82.03 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                    287
Site Name                Enright Ave between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction             St. Louis, MO
Study Type               Volume (ch1)
Location Code            222200
Direction                East
Date                     9/26/2012
Real Time                10:15
Start Date               9/26/2012
Start Time               11:00
Sample Time              00:15
Operator Number          69
Machine Number           22

Thursday, October 04, 2012

                      Channel 1                             Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                    HR                                HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00       Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00           11      8     1     1     1
  01             7     2     0     2     3
  02             3     0     1     1     1
  03             3     0     0     1     2
  04             6     0     0     4     2
  05           29      1     6     6    16
  06           49     10     6    15    18
  07          111     16    22    35    38
  08          130     42    33    27    28
  09          121     32    32    33    24
  10           73     33    40
  11
  12
  13
  14
  15
  16
  17
  18
  19
  20
  21
  22
  23
             543 Total                                   Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start           07:30
         AM Peak Hour Total             148
         AM Peak Hour Factor          88.10 %
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                     288
Site Name                   Enright Ave between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction                St. Louis, MO
Study Type                  Volume (ch1)
Location Code               221530
Direction                   West
Date                        9/26/2012
Real Time                   10:20
Start Date                  9/26/2012
Start Time                  11:00
Sample Time                 00:15
Operator Number             69
Machine Number              21

Wednesday, September 26, 2012

                      Channel 1                                Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                       HR                                HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00          Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00
  01
  02
  03
  04
  05
  06
  07
  08
  09
  10
  11           83    22        17    21     23
  12           75    18        19    20     18
  13           86    29        17    25     15
  14          103    23        26    29     25
  15          104    25        24    31     24
  16           77    27        13    16     21
  17           59    17        17    11     14
  18           30    13         7     5      5
  19           49    17        18     2     12
  20           17       5       6     5      1
  21           12       3       6     0      3
  22           12       1       3     2      6
  23           14       2       4     3      5
              721 Total                                     Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start               11:00
         AM Peak Hour Total                  83
         AM Peak Hour Factor              90.22 %
         PM Peak Hour Start               15:15
         PM Peak Hour Total                 106
         PM Peak Hour Factor              85.48 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                        289
Site Name               Enright Ave between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           221530
Direction               West
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               10:20
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              11:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          21

Thursday, September 27, 2012

                      Channel 1                           Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                  HR                                HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00           14       8    4     1     1
  01             3      1    0     1     1
  02             0      0    0     0     0
  03             6      1    3     0     2
  04           12       0    3     5     4
  05           50       4   10    16    20
  06           61     13    13    10    25
  07          112     31    30    22    29
  08          112     37    25    27    23
  09           83     17    14    25    27
  10           90     24    20    28    18
  11          104     27    26    25    26
  12           73     22    19    18    14
  13           78     19    13    18    28
  14          105     13    35    25    32
  15          107     39    18    34    16
  16           82     21    23    18    20
  17           59     18    12    11    18
  18           49     14    11    12    12
  19           64     14    21    17    12
  20           20       8    4     7     1
  21           17       7    5     2     3
  22           23       1   10     6     6
  23           15       3    4     6     2
             1339 Total                                Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          07:15
         AM Peak Hour Total            118
         AM Peak Hour Factor         79.73 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          14:15
         PM Peak Hour Total            131
         PM Peak Hour Factor         83.97 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                   290
Site Name               Enright Ave between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           221530
Direction               West
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               10:20
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              11:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          21

Friday, September 28, 2012

                      Channel 1                           Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                  HR                                HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00           18       9    4     4     1
  01             6      3    0     1     2
  02             4      0    2     1     1
  03             2      0    1     1     0
  04           10       0    3     5     2
  05           47       8   11    11    17
  06           57     12    16     7    22
  07           93     26    23    22    22
  08           88     23    20    25    20
  09           71     10    13    23    25
  10          118     35    30    28    25
  11           95     17    31    17    30
  12          130     26    24    34    46
  13          120     37    21    31    31
  14          118     21    33    25    39
  15          140     34    23    46    37
  16           90     29    17    21    23
  17           56     11    17    15    13
  18           47       9   16    10    12
  19           52     16    14    12    10
  20           29     13     4     8     4
  21           31       5    5    13     8
  22           25       8    3     7     7
  23           21       6    4     5     6
             1468 Total                                Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          09:45
         AM Peak Hour Total            118
         AM Peak Hour Factor         84.29 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          14:45
         PM Peak Hour Total            142
         PM Peak Hour Factor         77.17 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                   291
Site Name               Enright Ave between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           221530
Direction               West
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               10:20
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              11:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          21

Saturday, September 29, 2012

                      Channel 1                           Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                  HR                                HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00           17       7    6     2     2
  01             5      0    1     1     3
  02             9      4    2     1     2
  03             4      2    0     0     2
  04             7      2    2     3     0
  05           11       0    2     4     5
  06           39       6    5    10    18
  07           65     17    19    11    18
  08           76     14    18    20    24
  09          100     32    24    24    20
  10          110     19    43    31    17
  11          140     41    27    35    37
  12          141     29    45    36    31
  13          130     36    30    27    37
  14          179     60    35    40    44
  15          163     45    33    47    38
  16          153     37    38    42    36
  17          145     39    27    38    41
  18          129     31    25    27    46
  19          170     41    34    53    42
  20           93     24    24    22    23
  21           91     31    20    17    23
  22          203     24   140    26    13
  23           17       5    3     3     6
             2197 Total                                Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          11:00
         AM Peak Hour Total            140
         AM Peak Hour Factor         85.37 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          21:45
         PM Peak Hour Total            213
         PM Peak Hour Factor         38.04 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                   292
Site Name               Enright Ave between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           221530
Direction               West
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               10:20
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              11:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          21

Sunday, September 30, 2012

                     Channel 1                            Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                  HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00      Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00            9       1   3     4     1
  01            8       2   3     2     1
  02            9       4   1     3     1
  03            3       0   0     1     2
  04            5       2   1     1     1
  05            9       0   2     3     4
  06           15       1   3     5     6
  07           39    13     7    12     7
  08           25       6   3    13     3
  09           14       4   3     3     4
  10           22       7   5     6     4
  11           23       8   7     6     2
  12           36    13     5     7    11
  13           55    16    14    13    12
  14           49    12    12    16     9
  15           48    13    10    11    14
  16           33    10    11     7     5
  17           99    47    34     9     9
  18           27       5   8     8     6
  19           39    15     7     7    10
  20           17       5   6     4     2
  21           16       4   8     2     2
  22           13       4   1     4     4
  23           22       7   5     7     3
              635 Total                                Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          07:00
         AM Peak Hour Total             39
         AM Peak Hour Factor         75.00 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          17:00
         PM Peak Hour Total             99
         PM Peak Hour Factor         52.66 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                   293
Site Name               Enright Ave between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           221530
Direction               West
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               10:20
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              11:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          21

Monday, October 01, 2012

                      Channel 1                           Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                  HR                                HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00           15       9    1     4     1
  01           12       3    1     1     7
  02             2      0    0     1     1
  03             1      0    0     1     0
  04             9      1    0     3     5
  05           44       5   10    14    15
  06           67     12    14    12    29
  07          126     31    26    31    38
  08           97     23    21    28    25
  09           97     27    23    21    26
  10           90     21    22    26    21
  11           94     26    23    23    22
  12           88     20    21    21    26
  13           96     27    23    25    21
  14          107     24    32    24    27
  15           87     18    19    30    20
  16          100     28    22    26    24
  17           58     14    17     9    18
  18           30       9   13     7     1
  19           29       8    9     3     9
  20           24       9    7     4     4
  21           62       2    7    42    11
  22           11       3    2     4     2
  23           22       7    4     9     2
             1368 Total                                Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          07:00
         AM Peak Hour Total            126
         AM Peak Hour Factor         82.89 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          14:00
         PM Peak Hour Total            107
         PM Peak Hour Factor         83.59 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                   294
Site Name               Enright Ave between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           221530
Direction               West
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               10:20
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              11:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          21

Tuesday, October 02, 2012

                      Channel 1                           Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                  HR                                HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00           17     12     1     4     0
  01             6      3    0     2     1
  02             8      3    0     2     3
  03             5      1    2     0     2
  04             6      0    1     4     1
  05           50       3    9    19    19
  06           60     13    15    16    16
  07          116     40    23    21    32
  08           89     36    19    18    16
  09           85     21    33    19    12
  10           92     24    26    20    22
  11           89     15    27    23    24
  12           79     19    22    18    20
  13           80     28    23    19    10
  14           94     17    25    22    30
  15          107     25    23    31    28
  16           87     16    19    24    28
  17           62     11    21    16    14
  18           35     14     7     8     6
  19           45     15    13    10     7
  20           28     12     3     9     4
  21           15       0    7     3     5
  22           12       5    5     1     1
  23           24       4    3     6    11
             1291 Total                                Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          07:00
         AM Peak Hour Total            116
         AM Peak Hour Factor         72.50 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          14:45
         PM Peak Hour Total            109
         PM Peak Hour Factor         87.90 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                   295
Site Name               Enright Ave between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           221530
Direction               West
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               10:20
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              11:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          21

Wednesday, October 03, 2012

                      Channel 1                           Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                  HR                                HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00           13       7    2     3     1
  01             7      5    2     0     0
  02             4      0    3     1     0
  03             2      1    0     0     1
  04             5      1    1     2     1
  05           43       7    8    15    13
  06           52     12    13     8    19
  07          124     27    33    30    34
  08           73     27    14    21    11
  09           71     20    11    21    19
  10           86     19    19    28    20
  11          109     30    26    33    20
  12           85     25    15    17    28
  13          104     20    22    25    37
  14          112     27    31    34    20
  15           94     23    30    22    19
  16           76     25    19    20    12
  17           62     18    11    17    16
  18           41     10    12    11     8
  19           46     15    13     9     9
  20           23       8    5     5     5
  21           14       2    5     4     3
  22           13       6    6     0     1
  23           21       0    3     5    13
             1280 Total                                Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          07:00
         AM Peak Hour Total            124
         AM Peak Hour Factor         91.18 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          13:45
         PM Peak Hour Total            129
         PM Peak Hour Factor         87.16 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                   296
Site Name                Enright Ave between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction             St. Louis, MO
Study Type               Volume (ch1)
Location Code            221530
Direction                West
Date                     9/26/2012
Real Time                10:20
Start Date               9/26/2012
Start Time               11:00
Sample Time              00:15
Operator Number          69
Machine Number           21

Thursday, October 04, 2012

                      Channel 1                            Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                   HR                                HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00      Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00           20     13     1     2     4
  01             2     0     1     0     1
  02             3     0     1     0     2
  03             3     1     1     0     1
  04           10      2     1     4     3
  05           52      6     8    16    22
  06           53     11    16    10    16
  07           95     27    24    25    19
  08           72     26    18    17    11
  09           74     19    13    16    26
  10           71     21    20    30
  11
  12
  13
  14
  15
  16
  17
  18
  19
  20
  21
  22
  23
             455 Total                                  Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start           09:45
         AM Peak Hour Total              97
         AM Peak Hour Factor          80.83 %
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                    297
Site Name                   Windsor Place between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction                St. Louis, MO
Study Type                  Volume (ch1)
Location Code               424270
Direction                   East
Date                        9/26/2012
Real Time                   09:20
Start Date                  9/26/2012
Start Time                  10:00
Sample Time                 00:15
Operator Number             69
Machine Number              24

Wednesday, September 26, 2012

                      Channel 1                                Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                       HR                                HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00          Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00
  01
  02
  03
  04
  05
  06
  07
  08
  09
  10           15       2       4     5      4
  11           15       2       7     4      2
  12           19       7       1     4      7
  13           19       3       2     5      9
  14           11       5       2     2      2
  15           23       3       5     8      7
  16           35       8      12     8      7
  17           21       6       8     5      2
  18           11       3       2     4      2
  19            5       2       1     0      2
  20            3       2       0     0      1
  21            4       0       2     1      1
  22            4       3       0     1      0
  23            0       0       0     0      0
              185 Total                                     Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start               10:30
         AM Peak Hour Total                  18
         AM Peak Hour Factor              64.29 %
         PM Peak Hour Start               15:30
         PM Peak Hour Total                  35
         PM Peak Hour Factor              72.92 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                        298
Site Name               Windsor Place between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           424270
Direction               East
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               09:20
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              10:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          24

Thursday, September 27, 2012

                     Channel 1                            Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                  HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00      Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00            1       0   0     1     0
  01            0       0   0     0     0
  02            0       0   0     0     0
  03            1       1   0     0     0
  04            2       0   0     1     1
  05            4       1   1     0     2
  06           28       8   2     9     9
  07           27       2   7     6    12
  08           19       3   7     3     6
  09           19       1   8     5     5
  10           17       3   6     4     4
  11           23       6   2     7     8
  12           20       3   3     6     8
  13           12       4   4     2     2
  14           13       6   3     3     1
  15           19       4   7     5     3
  16           19       4   8     4     3
  17           21       5   7     8     1
  18           13       2   7     3     1
  19           10       2   3     2     3
  20            6       3   2     1     0
  21            4       0   1     0     3
  22            7       3   1     2     1
  23            0       0   0     0     0
              285 Total                                Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          06:00
         AM Peak Hour Total             28
         AM Peak Hour Factor         77.78 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          16:45
         PM Peak Hour Total             23
         PM Peak Hour Factor         71.88 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                   299
Site Name               Windsor Place between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           424270
Direction               East
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               09:20
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              10:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          24

Friday, September 28, 2012

                     Channel 1                            Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                  HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00      Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00            2       1   1     0     0
  01            0       0   0     0     0
  02            0       0   0     0     0
  03            0       0   0     0     0
  04            1       0   0     0     1
  05            4       0   1     0     3
  06            9       3   0     2     4
  07           32       8   8     6    10
  08           27       7   6     4    10
  09           21    10     5     3     3
  10           16       3   5     4     4
  11           19       4   8     5     2
  12           14       4   2     5     3
  13           19       6   8     2     3
  14           19       3   1     4    11
  15           34    12     7     8     7
  16           32    13     8     5     6
  17           14       1   5     5     3
  18           17       9   3     3     2
  19            7       5   1     1     0
  20            4       2   2     0     0
  21            6       0   2     2     2
  22            8       2   1     5     0
  23            1       0   0     1     0
              306 Total                                Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          07:00
         AM Peak Hour Total             32
         AM Peak Hour Factor         80.00 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          14:45
         PM Peak Hour Total             38
         PM Peak Hour Factor         79.17 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                   300
Site Name               Windsor Place between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           424270
Direction               East
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               09:20
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              10:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          24

Saturday, September 29, 2012

                     Channel 1                            Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                  HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00      Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00            2       1   0     1     0
  01            0       0   0     0     0
  02            1       0   0     0     1
  03            1       0   0     0     1
  04            1       1   0     0     0
  05            1       0   0     0     1
  06           10       1   0     2     7
  07            2       2   0     0     0
  08            3       0   0     1     2
  09            2       1   0     0     1
  10            6       1   0     3     2
  11           11       2   6     2     1
  12           10       3   2     2     3
  13            9       2   1     4     2
  14           15       2   2     5     6
  15            3       0   2     0     1
  16            7       2   3     2     0
  17           10       3   2     2     3
  18            3       2   0     1     0
  19           17       2   4     2     9
  20            5       1   1     1     2
  21            5       0   4     0     1
  22            0       0   0     0     0
  23            2       0   1     1     0
              126 Total                                Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          10:30
         AM Peak Hour Total             13
         AM Peak Hour Factor         54.17 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          19:00
         PM Peak Hour Total             17
         PM Peak Hour Factor         47.22 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                   301
Site Name               Windsor Place between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           424270
Direction               East
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               09:20
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              10:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          24

Sunday, September 30, 2012

                     Channel 1                            Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                  HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00      Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00            1       1   0     0     0
  01            2       0   0     2     0
  02            0       0   0     0     0
  03            0       0   0     0     0
  04            0       0   0     0     0
  05            1       0   1     0     0
  06            1       0   0     1     0
  07            2       0   0     1     1
  08            0       0   0     0     0
  09            6       2   2     0     2
  10            6       3   1     0     2
  11            3       1   1     1     0
  12            3       0   0     0     3
  13            4       0   1     2     1
  14            4       0   2     1     1
  15            1       0   0     1     0
  16            3       1   0     2     0
  17            6       2   0     4     0
  18            4       2   1     0     1
  19            3       0   0     0     3
  20            6       4   1     1     0
  21            9       1   3     4     1
  22            2       1   1     0     0
  23            1       1   0     0     0
               68 Total                                Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          09:15
         AM Peak Hour Total              7
         AM Peak Hour Factor         58.33 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          19:45
         PM Peak Hour Total              9
         PM Peak Hour Factor         56.25 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                   302
Site Name               Windsor Place between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           424270
Direction               East
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               09:20
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              10:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          24

Monday, October 01, 2012

                     Channel 1                            Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                  HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00      Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00            2       1   1     0     0
  01            0       0   0     0     0
  02            0       0   0     0     0
  03            0       0   0     0     0
  04            0       0   0     0     0
  05            3       1   1     0     1
  06           20       6   2     5     7
  07           25       9   8     3     5
  08           20       6   3     6     5
  09           16       5   1     3     7
  10           24       8   4     4     8
  11           22       6   3     5     8
  12           29       5  16     3     5
  13           21       7   3     7     4
  14            8       0   0     4     4
  15           12       2   2     4     4
  16           24       7   5    10     2
  17           16       5   2     7     2
  18            6       3   1     1     1
  19            8       2   1     2     3
  20            1       1   0     0     0
  21            3       0   0     1     2
  22            4       2   1     0     1
  23            0       0   0     0     0
              264 Total                                Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          06:30
         AM Peak Hour Total             29
         AM Peak Hour Factor         80.56 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          12:15
         PM Peak Hour Total             31
         PM Peak Hour Factor         48.44 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                   303
Site Name               Windsor Place between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           424270
Direction               East
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               09:20
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              10:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          24

Tuesday, October 02, 2012

                     Channel 1                            Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                  HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00      Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00            1       0   1     0     0
  01            3       2   0     1     0
  02            1       1   0     0     0
  03            0       0   0     0     0
  04            1       0   0     1     0
  05            2       0   1     0     1
  06           23       7   4     7     5
  07           29       7   9     5     8
  08           19       4   4     1    10
  09           13       3   4     3     3
  10           21       4   5     7     5
  11           13       3   4     6     0
  12           22       2   7     8     5
  13           17       9   1     1     6
  14           21       6   3     4     8
  15           28    11     6     4     7
  16           23       6   5     8     4
  17           21       6   7     6     2
  18            5       2   0     2     1
  19            2       0   1     1     0
  20            1       1   0     0     0
  21            4       2   1     0     1
  22            5       1   2     2     0
  23            3       0   1     2     0
              278 Total                                Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          07:00
         AM Peak Hour Total             29
         AM Peak Hour Factor         80.56 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          12:15
         PM Peak Hour Total             29
         PM Peak Hour Factor         80.56 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                   304
Site Name               Windsor Place between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction            St. Louis, MO
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           424270
Direction               East
Date                    9/26/2012
Real Time               09:20
Start Date              9/26/2012
Start Time              10:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         69
Machine Number          24

Wednesday, October 03, 2012

                     Channel 1                            Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                  HR                                HR
 Begin     Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00      Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00            1       0   0     0     1
  01            1       0   0     1     0
  02            1       1   0     0     0
  03            1       0   0     1     0
  04            1       0   0     1     0
  05            1       0   0     1     0
  06           18       2   7     2     7
  07           26       5   4     9     8
  08           20       6   4     3     7
  09           16       1   5     8     2
  10           14       3   2     6     3
  11           14       4   5     3     2
  12           10       2   3     3     2
  13           22       6   5     9     2
  14           18       1   9     5     3
  15           23       3  10     6     4
  16           24       8   3     6     7
  17           20       4   6     6     4
  18           12       6   4     2     0
  19            3       1   1     1     0
  20            5       2   1     0     2
  21            5       3   2     0     0
  22            4       3   0     0     1
  23            2       1   0     0     1
              262 Total                                Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start          07:15
         AM Peak Hour Total             27
         AM Peak Hour Factor         75.00 %
         PM Peak Hour Start          15:15
         PM Peak Hour Total             28
         PM Peak Hour Factor         70.00 %

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                   305
Site Name                 Windsor Place between Grand and Spring EB
Jurisdiction              St. Louis, MO
Study Type                Volume (ch1)
Location Code             424270
Direction                 East
Date                      9/26/2012
Real Time                 09:20
Start Date                9/26/2012
Start Time                10:00
Sample Time               00:15
Operator Number           69
Machine Number            24

Thursday, October 04, 2012

                      Channel 1                             Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                    HR                                HR
 Begin     Total    00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00      Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00            2       2     0     0     0
  01            0       0     0     0     0
  02            0       0     0     0     0
  03            0       0     0     0     0
  04            2       0     0     0     2
  05            4       1     1     0     2
  06           15       3     2     2     8
  07           20       3     4     6     7
  08           20       7     8     3     2
  09           19       4     6     5     4
  10           12      10     0     2
  11
  12
  13
  14
  15
  16
  17
  18
  19
  20
  21
  22
  23
               94 Total                                  Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start            07:30
         AM Peak Hour Total               28
         AM Peak Hour Factor           87.50 %
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                     306
Site Name                  Windsor Place between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction               St. Louis, MO
Study Type                 Volume (ch2)
Location Code              424500
Direction                  West
Date                       9/26/2012
Real Time                  09:20
Start Date                 9/26/2012
Start Time                 10:00
Sample Time                00:15
Operator Number            69
Machine Number             24

Wednesday, September 26, 2012

                      Channel 1                              Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                     HR                                HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00
  01
  02
  03
  04
  05
  06
  07
  08
  09
  10                                                  13       1    4     4     4
  11                                                  12       1    7     2     2
  12                                                  13       6    1     3     3
  13                                                  12       3    0     4     5
  14                                                   8       1    2     2     3
  15                                                  21       3    6     9     3
  16                                                  27       5   10     6     6
  17                                                  19       5    8     4     2
  18                                                  10       2    2     4     2
  19                                                   5       2    1     0     2
  20                                                   4       3    0     0     1
  21                                                   2       0    1     1     0
  22                                                   2       1    0     1     0
  23                                                   0       0    0     0     0
                   Total                             148 Total                              Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start             10:30
         AM Peak Hour Total                16
         AM Peak Hour Factor            57.14 %
         PM Peak Hour Start             15:30
         PM Peak Hour Total                27
         PM Peak Hour Factor            67.50 %

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                      307
Site Name                  Windsor Place between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction               St. Louis, MO
Study Type                 Volume (ch2)
Location Code              424500
Direction                  West
Date                       9/26/2012
Real Time                  09:20
Start Date                 9/26/2012
Start Time                 10:00
Sample Time                00:15
Operator Number            69
Machine Number             24

Thursday, September 27, 2012

                      Channel 1                              Channel 2                     Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                     HR                               HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00                                                   0       0   0     0     0
  01                                                   0       0   0     0     0
  02                                                   0       0   0     0     0
  03                                                   0       0   0     0     0
  04                                                   0       0   0     0     0
  05                                                   1       0   1     0     0
  06                                                  19       7   1     6     5
  07                                                  16       0   4     5     7
  08                                                  14       0   7     2     5
  09                                                  19       1  10     4     4
  10                                                  11       1   4     2     4
  11                                                  11       1   2     5     3
  12                                                  15       1   3     9     2
  13                                                  13       4   5     2     2
  14                                                   9       5   2     2     0
  15                                                  13       1   6     4     2
  16                                                  20       4   9     4     3
  17                                                  16       4   4     7     1
  18                                                  13       1   9     2     1
  19                                                   8       2   1     3     2
  20                                                   5       3   1     1     0
  21                                                   2       0   1     0     1
  22                                                   4       2   0     1     1
  23                                                   0       0   0     0     0
                   Total                             209 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start             08:45
         AM Peak Hour Total                20
         AM Peak Hour Factor            50.00 %
         PM Peak Hour Start             12:30
         PM Peak Hour Total                20
         PM Peak Hour Factor            55.56 %

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                     308
Site Name                  Windsor Place between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction               St. Louis, MO
Study Type                 Volume (ch2)
Location Code              424500
Direction                  West
Date                       9/26/2012
Real Time                  09:20
Start Date                 9/26/2012
Start Time                 10:00
Sample Time                00:15
Operator Number            69
Machine Number             24

Friday, September 28, 2012

                      Channel 1                              Channel 2                     Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                     HR                               HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00                                                   1       0   1     0     0
  01                                                   0       0   0     0     0
  02                                                   0       0   0     0     0
  03                                                   0       0   0     0     0
  04                                                   0       0   0     0     0
  05                                                   5       0   2     0     3
  06                                                   6       1   0     2     3
  07                                                  17       2   3     5     7
  08                                                  15       5   4     3     3
  09                                                  14       5   4     3     2
  10                                                   9       1   4     3     1
  11                                                  11       3   4     4     0
  12                                                   7       1   1     3     2
  13                                                  11       2   6     1     2
  14                                                  13       2   1     2     8
  15                                                  24       6   7     5     6
  16                                                  27    10     7     3     7
  17                                                  12       0   4     4     4
  18                                                  13       6   3     3     1
  19                                                   6       5   1     0     0
  20                                                   4       2   2     0     0
  21                                                   3       0   1     1     1
  22                                                   6       1   1     4     0
  23                                                   0       0   0     0     0
                   Total                             204 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start             07:30
         AM Peak Hour Total                21
         AM Peak Hour Factor            75.00 %
         PM Peak Hour Start             15:15
         PM Peak Hour Total                28
         PM Peak Hour Factor            70.00 %

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                     309
Site Name                  Windsor Place between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction               St. Louis, MO
Study Type                 Volume (ch2)
Location Code              424500
Direction                  West
Date                       9/26/2012
Real Time                  09:20
Start Date                 9/26/2012
Start Time                 10:00
Sample Time                00:15
Operator Number            69
Machine Number             24

Saturday, September 29, 2012

                      Channel 1                              Channel 2                     Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                     HR                               HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00                                                   1       0   0     1     0
  01                                                   0       0   0     0     0
  02                                                   1       0   0     0     1
  03                                                   1       0   0     0     1
  04                                                   1       1   0     0     0
  05                                                   1       0   0     0     1
  06                                                   4       1   0     1     2
  07                                                   1       1   0     0     0
  08                                                   1       0   0     0     1
  09                                                   0       0   0     0     0
  10                                                   2       0   0     1     1
  11                                                   9       1   6     2     0
  12                                                   6       3   1     0     2
  13                                                   8       2   2     3     1
  14                                                  12       1   2     4     5
  15                                                   3       0   2     0     1
  16                                                   4       1   3     0     0
  17                                                  10       4   2     1     3
  18                                                   2       1   0     1     0
  19                                                   9       1   2     1     5
  20                                                   3       0   1     1     1
  21                                                   3       0   2     0     1
  22                                                   0       0   0     0     0
  23                                                   1       0   1     0     0
                   Total                              83 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start             10:45
         AM Peak Hour Total                10
         AM Peak Hour Factor            41.67 %
         PM Peak Hour Start             14:00
         PM Peak Hour Total                12
         PM Peak Hour Factor            60.00 %

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                     310
Site Name                  Windsor Place between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction               St. Louis, MO
Study Type                 Volume (ch2)
Location Code              424500
Direction                  West
Date                       9/26/2012
Real Time                  09:20
Start Date                 9/26/2012
Start Time                 10:00
Sample Time                00:15
Operator Number            69
Machine Number             24

Sunday, September 30, 2012

                      Channel 1                              Channel 2                     Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                     HR                               HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00                                                   0       0   0     0     0
  01                                                   2       0   0     2     0
  02                                                   0       0   0     0     0
  03                                                   0       0   0     0     0
  04                                                   0       0   0     0     0
  05                                                   1       0   1     0     0
  06                                                   1       0   0     1     0
  07                                                   2       0   0     1     1
  08                                                   0       0   0     0     0
  09                                                   4       1   2     0     1
  10                                                   3       1   1     0     1
  11                                                   3       1   1     1     0
  12                                                   3       0   0     0     3
  13                                                   4       0   1     2     1
  14                                                   3       0   2     0     1
  15                                                   0       0   0     0     0
  16                                                   2       1   0     1     0
  17                                                   4       1   0     3     0
  18                                                   4       2   1     0     1
  19                                                   2       0   0     0     2
  20                                                   4       2   1     1     0
  21                                                   4       1   2     0     1
  22                                                   1       1   0     0     0
  23                                                   0       0   0     0     0
                   Total                              47 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start             09:00
         AM Peak Hour Total                 4
         AM Peak Hour Factor            50.00 %
         PM Peak Hour Start             12:45
         PM Peak Hour Total                 6
         PM Peak Hour Factor            50.00 %

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                     311
Site Name                  Windsor Place between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction               St. Louis, MO
Study Type                 Volume (ch2)
Location Code              424500
Direction                  West
Date                       9/26/2012
Real Time                  09:20
Start Date                 9/26/2012
Start Time                 10:00
Sample Time                00:15
Operator Number            69
Machine Number             24

Monday, October 01, 2012

                      Channel 1                              Channel 2                     Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                     HR                               HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00                                                   1       0   1     0     0
  01                                                   0       0   0     0     0
  02                                                   0       0   0     0     0
  03                                                   0       0   0     0     0
  04                                                   0       0   0     0     0
  05                                                   2       1   1     0     0
  06                                                  10       3   2     3     2
  07                                                  18       5   7     2     4
  08                                                  17       5   2     6     4
  09                                                   6       1   0     2     3
  10                                                  19       6   3     4     6
  11                                                  14       2   2     3     7
  12                                                  22       3  15     1     3
  13                                                  17       8   0     5     4
  14                                                   5       0   0     3     2
  15                                                   8       2   1     2     3
  16                                                  23       7   4    10     2
  17                                                  12       4   2     4     2
  18                                                   5       3   1     1     0
  19                                                   5       1   1     1     2
  20                                                   1       1   0     0     0
  21                                                   2       0   0     1     1
  22                                                   4       2   0     0     2
  23                                                   0       0   0     0     0
                   Total                             191 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start             10:00
         AM Peak Hour Total                19
         AM Peak Hour Factor            79.17 %
         PM Peak Hour Start             12:15
         PM Peak Hour Total                27
         PM Peak Hour Factor            45.00 %

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                     312
Site Name                  Windsor Place between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction               St. Louis, MO
Study Type                 Volume (ch2)
Location Code              424500
Direction                  West
Date                       9/26/2012
Real Time                  09:20
Start Date                 9/26/2012
Start Time                 10:00
Sample Time                00:15
Operator Number            69
Machine Number             24

Tuesday, October 02, 2012

                      Channel 1                              Channel 2                     Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                     HR                               HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00                                                   0       0   0     0     0
  01                                                   2       1   0     1     0
  02                                                   1       1   0     0     0
  03                                                   0       0   0     0     0
  04                                                   0       0   0     0     0
  05                                                   0       0   0     0     0
  06                                                   6       2   1     2     1
  07                                                  16       2   4     3     7
  08                                                  17       4   4     1     8
  09                                                   9       2   3     2     2
  10                                                   9       2   2     4     1
  11                                                  10       2   1     7     0
  12                                                  20       3   5     8     4
  13                                                  12       8   0     0     4
  14                                                  14       4   1     4     5
  15                                                  19       8   4     5     2
  16                                                  18       6   4     5     3
  17                                                  16       4   6     5     1
  18                                                   2       0   0     1     1
  19                                                   1       0   0     1     0
  20                                                   1       1   0     0     0
  21                                                   3       2   1     0     0
  22                                                   4       0   2     2     0
  23                                                   2       0   1     1     0
                   Total                             182 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start             07:15
         AM Peak Hour Total                18
         AM Peak Hour Factor            64.29 %
         PM Peak Hour Start             12:15
         PM Peak Hour Total                25
         PM Peak Hour Factor            78.13 %

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                     313
Site Name                  Windsor Place between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction               St. Louis, MO
Study Type                 Volume (ch2)
Location Code              424500
Direction                  West
Date                       9/26/2012
Real Time                  09:20
Start Date                 9/26/2012
Start Time                 10:00
Sample Time                00:15
Operator Number            69
Machine Number             24

Wednesday, October 03, 2012

                      Channel 1                              Channel 2                     Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                     HR                               HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total  00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00                                                   0       0   0     0     0
  01                                                   1       0   0     1     0
  02                                                   1       1   0     0     0
  03                                                   2       0   0     2     0
  04                                                   1       0   0     1     0
  05                                                   1       0   0     1     0
  06                                                  11       2   5     1     3
  07                                                  21       3   2     9     7
  08                                                  13       4   3     3     3
  09                                                  10       1   4     5     0
  10                                                  13       4   2     5     2
  11                                                  10       4   3     1     2
  12                                                   7       2   3     1     1
  13                                                  18       3   4     8     3
  14                                                   7       1   0     4     2
  15                                                  21       2  10     7     2
  16                                                  21       7   3     4     7
  17                                                  14       3   5     4     2
  18                                                   8       5   2     1     0
  19                                                   2       1   1     0     0
  20                                                   5       2   1     0     2
  21                                                   5       3   2     0     0
  22                                                   2       1   0     0     1
  23                                                   1       0   0     0     1
                   Total                             195 Total                             Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start             07:30
         AM Peak Hour Total                23
         AM Peak Hour Factor            63.89 %
         PM Peak Hour Start             15:15
         PM Peak Hour Total                26
         PM Peak Hour Factor            65.00 %

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                     314
Site Name                  Windsor Place between Grand and Spring WB
Jurisdiction               St. Louis, MO
Study Type                 Volume (ch2)
Location Code              424500
Direction                  West
Date                       9/26/2012
Real Time                  09:20
Start Date                 9/26/2012
Start Time                 10:00
Sample Time                00:15
Operator Number            69
Machine Number             24

Thursday, October 04, 2012

                      Channel 1                              Channel 2                       Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR        HR                                     HR                                 HR
 Begin     Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total    00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00                                                   1       1     0     0     0
  01                                                   0       0     0     0     0
  02                                                   0       0     0     0     0
  03                                                   0       0     0     0     0
  04                                                   1       0     0     0     1
  05                                                   2       0     1     0     1
  06                                                   5       1     1     0     3
  07                                                  12       2     0     5     5
  08                                                  15       6     7     2     0
  09                                                  13       2     4     3     4
  10                                                   7       5     0     2
  11
  12
  13
  14
  15
  16
  17
  18
  19
  20
  21
  22
  23
                   Total                              56 Total                               Total


         Channel 1
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 2
         AM Peak Hour Start             07:30
         AM Peak Hour Total                23
         AM Peak Hour Factor            82.14 %
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor

         Channel 1 + 2
         AM Peak Hour Start
         AM Peak Hour Total
         AM Peak Hour Factor
         PM Peak Hour Start
         PM Peak Hour Total
         PM Peak Hour Factor




                                                                                                                       315
   Location: Vandeventer (S. of Olive)
             Direction: NB                               Direction: SB                       Combined Directions
Time of Day     Th          F          Sat     Average      Th          F    Sat   Average      Th         F       Sat    Average
  6:00 PM       377        442         381       400        237        305   217     253       614        747      598      653
  7:00 PM       403        582         643       543        197        250   202     216       600        832      845      759
  8:00 PM       185        254         216       218        161        166   164     164       346        420      380      382

 10:00 PM        161        210         199     190        357        459    448    421         518       669      647     611
 11:00 PM        146        178         133     152        126        152    163    147         272       330      296     299

   Location: Washington Blvd (E. Of Spring)
             Direction: EB                               Direction: WB                       Combined Directions
Time of Day      Th         F        Sat       Average      Th         F     Sat   Average      Th         F       Sat    Average
  6:00 PM       163        169       122         151        129       113    98      113       292        282      220      265
  7:00 PM       188        262       299         250        101       117    83      100       289        379      382      350
  8:00 PM        83         93       120         99          84        87    158     110       167        180      278      208

 10:00 PM        57          94         102      84        310        458    344    371         367       552      446     455
 11:00 PM        37          86          98      74         45         95    109     83          82       181      207     157

   Location: Olive Street (E. of Spring)
             Direction: EB                               Direction: WB                       Combined Directions
Time of Day      Th           F          Sat   Average      Th         F     Sat   Average      Th         F       Sat    Average
  6:00 PM         98         89          65       84        79         68    48      65        177        157      113      149
  7:00 PM        151        156         192      166        78         86    88      84        229        242      280      250
  8:00 PM         53         44          55       51        54         57    62      58        107        101      117      108

 10:00 PM        58         106         71       78        135        181    160    159         193       287      231     237
 11:00 PM        21          31         40       31         20         26     32     26          41        57       72      57

   Location: Lindell Blvd (W. of Grand)
              Direction: EB                              Direction: WB                       Combined Directions
Time of Day      Th          F          Sat    Average      Th         F     Sat   Average      Th         F       Sat    Average
  6:00 PM        509        571        473       518        489       468    400     452       998       1039      873      970
  7:00 PM        392        599        457       483        315       351    353     340       707        950      810      822
  8:00 PM        359        374        301       345        241       280    241     254       600        654      542      599

 10:00 PM        409        499         548     485        246        413    357    339         655       912      905     824
 11:00 PM        214        323         343     293        126        237    214    192         340       560      557     486

   Location: Grand Blvd (S. of Delmar)
             Direction: NB                               Direction: SB                       Combined Directions
Time of Day     Th          F         Sat      Average      Th          F    Sat   Average      Th         F       Sat    Average
  6:00 PM       358        475        362        398        381        523   436     447       739        998      798      845
  7:00 PM       268        455        370        364        340        500   384     408       608        955      754      772
  8:00 PM       259        377        351        329        282        391   353     342       541        768      704      671

 10:00 PM        239        328         306     291        211        366    327    301         450       694      633     592
 11:00 PM        184        275         241     233        174        278    305    252         358       553      546     486

   Location: Grand Blvd (N. of Lindell)
             Direction: NB                               Direction: SB                       Combined Directions
Time of Day     Th          F           Sat    Average      Th          F    Sat   Average      Th         F        Sat   Average
  6:00 PM       568        712          657      646        445        539   436     473       1013      1251      1093    1119
  7:00 PM       860       1089         1036      995        354        483   408     415       1214      1572      1444    1410
  8:00 PM       250        389          444      361        359        421   343     374       609        810      787      735

 10:00 PM        213        296         318     276        608        821    775    735         821      1117      1093    1010
 11:00 PM        193        304         239     245        196        334    435    322         389       638      674     567

   Location: Lindell Blvd (E. of Grand)
              Direction: EB                              Direction: WB                       Combined Directions
Time of Day      Th           F         Sat    Average      Th         F     Sat   Average      Th         F       Sat    Average
  6:00 PM        348        456         338      381        247       255    200     234       595        711      538      615
  7:00 PM        318        568         469      452        176       206    226     203       494        774      695      654
  8:00 PM        188        266         208      221        155       170    129     151       343        436      337      372

 10:00 PM        171        277         316     255        172        259    237    223         343       536      553     477
 11:00 PM        125        231         309     222        71         137    138    115         196       368      447     337

   Location: Delmar Blvd (E. of Grand)
             Direction: EB                               Direction: WB                       Combined Directions
Time of Day     Th          F         Sat      Average      Th         F     Sat   Average      Th         F       Sat    Average
  6:00 PM       87         127         83        99         96        107     68      90       183        234      151      189
  7:00 PM       44         174        142        120        54        138    133     108        98        312      275      228




Event Peak
                                                                                                                             316
  8:00 PM        58         73       78       70         35        45     52      44         93        118      130    114

 10:00 PM        49         86       95       77         27        45     42      38         76        131      137    115
 11:00 PM        26         63       61       50         30        29     29      29         56         92       90    79

   Location: Washington (E. of Grand)
             Direction: EB                            Direction: WB                       Combined Directions
Time of Day     Th          F         Sat   Average      Th         F     Sat   Average      Th         F       Sat   Average
  6:00 PM       136        124        96      119        124       122    91      112       260        246      187     231
  7:00 PM       105        130        110     115        142       194    252     196       247        324      362     311
  8:00 PM        62         90        121      91        101        94    109     101       163        184      230     192

 10:00 PM       221        288       373     294         57        89     100     82         278       377      473    376
 11:00 PM        61        140       160     120         43        78      88     70         104       218      248    190

   Location: Olive (E. of Grand)
             Direction: NB                            Direction: SB                       Combined Directions
Time of Day      Th          F       Sat    Average      Th          F    Sat   Average      Th         F       Sat   Average
  6:00 PM        46          34      26       35         127        127    73     109       173        161       99     144
  7:00 PM        53          38      49       47         179        343   287     270       232        381      336     316
  8:00 PM        42          40      26       36         81         80    74      78        123        120      100     114

 10:00 PM       118        193       185     165         37        60     39      45         155       253      224    211
 11:00 PM        21         21        55      32         30        50     52      44          51        71      107     76

   Location: Compton Ave (N. of Locust)
             Direction: NB                            Direction: SB                       Combined Directions
Time of Day     Th          F       Sat     Average      Th          F    Sat   Average      Th         F       Sat   Average
  6:00 PM       210        196      155       187        174        144   93      137       384        340      248     324
  7:00 PM       188        306      321       272        98         131   93      107       286        437      414     379
  8:00 PM       138        148       99       128        19         120   89       76       157        268      188     204

 10:00 PM        93        116       107     105        175        202    231    203         268       318      338    308
 11:00 PM        60         89        87      79         60        100    111     90         120       189      198    169




Event Peak
                                                                                                                         317
Appendix K: Checklist
      Results




                        318
                                                                                                   OVERALL                                                 EAST COMMUNITY                          WEST COMMUNITY                           CENTRAL COMMUNITY
                                                                                               Important?           First Impression                       Important?    First Impression          Important?          First Impression? Important?      First Impression?
      Question                                                                                 Overall              Overall                                East          East                      West                West                Central       Central
      GREAT STREETS ARE REPRESENTATIVE OF THEIR PLACE                                          AVG                  AVG                 AMPLIFIED          AVG           AVG                       AVG                 AVG                 AVG           AVG
      1. The scale of the street is appropriate for people and uses                                          0.61                2.37               1.45            0.92                    2.60                0.91                  1.91          0.62                     2.60
      2. The character of the street is appropriate for the context of the district                          0.63                2.11               1.33            0.92                    2.27                0.91                  1.55          0.70                     2.50
      3. The street helps the district feel like a community                                                 0.62                1.91               1.19            0.92                    1.73                0.91                  1.36          0.67                     2.63
      4. The street feels like it is unique to Grand Center                                                  0.61                1.92               1.17            0.77                    1.64                0.82                  1.64          0.85                     2.50
      5. The street responds to special needs of the district                                                0.55                2.09               1.15            0.77                    1.64                1.00                  2.20          0.43                     2.44

      GREAT STREETS ALLOW PEOPLE TO WALK COMFORTABLY AND SAFELY
      1. The pedestrian environment is well designed                                                         0.58                2.00               1.17             0.92                   1.73                0.91                 1.70            0.50                    2.57
      2. The pedestrian environment is well furnished with pedestrian amenities                              0.55                1.79               0.98             0.92                   1.64                0.82                 1.30            0.46                    2.43
      3. The pedestrian environment is safe                                                                  0.67                2.51               1.69             0.92                   2.18                1.00                 2.60            0.77                    2.75
      4. The width and condition of the sidewalk is conducive to walking                                     0.65                2.42               1.58             0.92                   2.09                0.91                 1.50            0.79                    3.67
      5. The pedestrian environment is inviting to people                                                    0.59                1.95               1.15             0.85                   1.55                1.00                 1.60            0.50                    2.71

      GREAT STREETS CONTRIBUTE TO ECONOMIC VITALITY
      1. The street helps people interact                                                                    0.54                1.84               0.99             0.85                   1.36                0.91                 1.90            0.40                    2.25
      2. The street helps promote commerce                                                                   0.52                1.90               0.99             0.77                   1.64                0.82                 1.70            0.50                    2.38
      3. The street is a destination for Grand Center and greater St. Louis                                  0.62                2.54               1.57             0.77                   1.73                0.80                 1.90            0.90                    4.00
      4. The street is an effective transportation channel for vehicles                                      0.53                2.74               1.45             0.85                   3.00                0.91                 2.78            0.36                    2.44
      5. The street is a desirable address for businesses and venues                                         0.66                2.71               1.79             0.92                   2.18                0.91                 2.60            0.82                    3.33
      6. The streets provide connections from residential neighborhoods to businesses and                    0.64                2.52               1.62             0.77                   2.50                1.00                 2.20            0.80                    2.86

      GREAT STREETS ARE FUNCTIONALLY COMPLETE
      1. The street provides for safe and convenient transit travel                                          0.65                2.64               1.71             0.92                   3.00                1.00                 2.20            0.67                    2.71
      2. The street provides for safe and convenient waking travel                                           0.66                2.25               1.49             0.92                   2.18                1.00                 1.90            0.73                    2.67
      3. The street provides for safe and convenient bicycling travel                                        0.49                1.79               0.88             0.69                   1.45                0.82                 1.80            0.44                    2.13
      4. The street provides for safe and convenient freight movement                                        0.37                2.32               0.86             0.38                   2.40                0.64                 2.27            0.45                    2.29
      5. The street provides for safe and convenient accessible travel                                       0.64                2.59               1.67             0.85                   2.50                1.00                 2.27            0.73                    3.00

      GREAT STREETS PROVIDE MOBILITY
      1. The street balances the three elements of mobility: through-travel, local circulation               0.58                2.22               1.29             0.92                   2.50                0.91                 2.15            0.50                    2.00
      2. The street provides for those who want to travel through the district and beyond lo                 0.52                2.88               1.49             0.62                   2.90                0.55                 2.35            0.92                    3.38
      3. The street provides for good local circulation through the district to local destinatio             0.61                2.53               1.54             0.92                   2.64                0.82                 2.05            0.69                    2.89
      4. The street provides for good access within the district                                             0.65                2.73               1.78             0.92                   2.64                1.00                 2.25            0.69                    3.30

      GREAT STREETS FACILITATE PLACEMAKING
      1. The street has memorable places                                                                     0.69                3.09               2.13             0.85                   2.09                0.91                 3.05            1.00                    4.13
      2. The street has public spaces such as plazas and parks                                               0.69                2.27               1.55             1.00                   2.09                0.91                 1.95            0.83                    2.75
      3. The street has attractive intersections and corners                                                 0.56                2.04               1.15             0.85                   1.60                0.91                 1.77            0.50                    2.75
      4. The street has sidewalks that are wide enough to provide for an active street life                  0.67                2.34               1.57             0.92                   2.18                0.91                 1.50            0.86                    3.33
      5. The street has destinations along it                                                                0.67                3.15               2.11             0.85                   2.30                0.91                 3.05            0.92                    4.11
      6. The streets has a recognizable design character that makes it unique to Grand C                     0.56                2.39               1.35             0.77                   1.55                0.82                 1.75            0.67                    3.89

      GREAT STREES ARE GREEN
      1. The street provides an attractive, green environment that incorporates natural sys                  0.56                1.89               1.06             0.92                   1.70                0.91                 1.68            0.42                    2.30
      2. The street looks like it incorporates green development techniques such as rain ga                  0.51                1.64               0.83             0.85                   1.60                0.82                 1.32            0.36                    2.00
      3. The street has a generous amount of street trees and plantings                                      0.53                1.85               0.97             0.92                   1.64                0.91                 1.68            0.27                    2.22
      4. The street has energy efficient lighting                                                            0.53                2.10               1.11             0.85                   2.20                0.91                 1.65            0.36                    2.44
      5. The street pavements are shaded by trees and buildings and reduce the build-up o                    0.53                1.97               1.05             0.85                   2.09                0.91                 1.50            0.36                    2.33




319
                                                                        How important is each question on the Great Streets Checklist?
                                       0.70



                                       0.65



                                       0.60



                                       0.55



                                       0.50

                                                                                                                                         Perceived Importance




             Average Importance (01)
                                       0.45



                                       0.40



                                       0.35



                                       0.30



                                                                                         Great Streets Checklist Question

      View as Least Important: 
      GREAT STREETS ARE FUNCTIONALLY COMPLETE
      4. The street provides for safe and convenient freight movement

      Viewed as Most Important:
      GREAT STREETS FACILITATE PLACEMAKING
      1. The street has memorable places
      2. The street has public spaces such as plazas and parks




320
                                                                                                                    First Impressions of Grand Center (overall)
                                                     3.30



                                                     3.10



                                                     2.90



                                                     2.70



                                                     2.50



                                                     2.30                                                                                                                                                              Series1



                                                     2.10




          Average First Impression (1 low  5 high)
                                                     1.90



                                                     1.70



                                                     1.50
                                                            1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48
                                                                                                                                 Great Streets Checklist Question



      Worst Impresstion:
      GREAT STREES ARE GREEN
      2. The street looks like it incorporates green development techniques such as rain gardens, porous paving, water conservation or reuse, etc.

      Best Impression:
      GREAT STREETS FACILITATE PLACEMAKING
      5. The street has destinations along it




321
                                                                                       What are areas of concern?  High Importance + Low First Impression
                   3.50




                   3.00




                   2.50




                   2.00


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Perceived Importance




      Avg Scores
                   1.50                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               First Impression




                   1.00




                   0.50




                   0.00
                          1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10   11   12   13   14   15   16   17   18   19   20   21     22   23   24   25   26   27      28   29   30   31   32   33   34   35   36   37   38   39   40   41   42   43   44   45   46   47   48
                                                                                                                          Great Streets Checklist Question




322
                                                                                                   First Impressions at each event
      4.50


      4.00


      3.50


      3.00


      2.50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    West
      2.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Central


      1.50


      1.00


      0.50


      0.00
             1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10   11   12   13   14   15   16   17   18   19   20   21   22   23   24   25   26   27   28   29   30   31   32   33   34   35   36   37   38   39   40   41   42   43   44   45   46   47   48




323
                                                                               Perceived Importance of the questions at each event
      1.20




      1.00




      0.80




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    East
      0.60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    West
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Central


      0.40




      0.20




      0.00
             1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10   11   12   13   14   15   16   17   18   19   20   21   22   23   24   25   26   27   28   29   30   31   32   33   34   35   36   37   38   39   40   41   42   43   44   45   46   47   48




324
Appendix L: Image
   Preference
    Results




                    325
Blink Test Tabulations
#           East       West       Open Hs        42
1                    3        1             10   41
2                    4        3             18   40
3                    5        3             17   39
4                    2        1             18   38
5                    5        3             12   37
6                    2        3             12   36
7                    7        3             18   35
8                    2        1              8   34
9                    4        1              5   33
10                   5        5             23   32
11                   5        4             15   31
12                   5        2             16   30
13                   2        2             18   29
14                   5        6             33   28
15                   3        4              5   27
16                   4        1             20   26
17                   2        4             17   25
                                                 24
18                   6        4             21
                                                 23
19                   2                      14                                     East
                                                 22
20                   2        3             15
                                                 21                                West
21                   3        2             13
                                                 20                                Open Hs
22                   2        3             19
                                                 19
23                   3        2              8
                                                 18
24                   5        3             18
                                                 17
25                   5        2             17
                                                 16
26                   3        2             11
                                                 15
27                   2        2             12
                                                 14
28                   3        1              6
                                                 13
29                   7        5             23
                                                 12
30                   5        3             23
                                                 11
31                   2        3             27
                                                 10
32                   5        2             17
                                                  9
33                   4        3             20
                                                  8
34                   4        4             15
                                                  7
35                                           3
                                                  6
36                   8        6             32
                                                  5
37                   2        1              9
                                                  4
38                   3        2              6
                                                  3
39                   3        2             20
                                                  2
40                   1        2              4
                                                  1
41                   3        1             17
42                   5        5             30        0   10   20   30   40   50
43




                                                                                          326
327
328
