                                                           AGENDA ITEM: 4




                      MILPITAS PLANNING COMMISSION
                             AGENDA REPORT
 PUBLIC HEARING                     Meeting Date: June 25, 2008


APPLICATION:          GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT NO. GM2006-2, ZONE
                      CHANGE NO. ZC2007-8, "S" ZONE NO. SZ2007-10, PLANNED
                      UNIT DEVELOPMENT NO. PD2007-1, VESTING TENTATIVE
                      MAP NO. MA2007-4, and ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
                      ASSESSMENT NO. EA2007-6, Sinclair Renaissance Residential
                      Project
APLICATION
SUMMARY:              A request for a General Plan Amendment, Zone Change, Planned Unit
                      Development, Site and Architecture Review, and Vesting Tentative Map
                      to allow for the demolition of an existing low-rise industrial business
                      park that contains approximately 121,746 square feet of building floor
                      space located on a 9.65 acre site on the west side of Sinclair Frontage
                      Road, south of Los Coches Street and to redevelop the site with 80
                      detached, two-story, single family residential homes, .34 acre private
                      park and installation of associated site improvements and landscaping.

LOCATION:             245-373 Sinclair Frontage Road (APN 86-29-061, 062, 075, 076, and
                      042)
APPLICANT/OWNER:      Stephen Allen, Mission Peak Homes, 40480 Encyclopedia Cir., Fremont,
                      CA 94538

RECOMMENDATION:       Staff recommends that the Planning Commission:
                      1. Close the public hearing; and
                      2. Adopt Resolution No. 08-020 and recommend approval to the
                         City Council subject to conditions of approval.

PROJECT DATA:
General Plan/
Zoning Designation:   Manufacturing and Warehousing (MFG)/Heavy Industrial (M2)
Overlay District:     N/A
Specific Plan:        N/A

Site Area:            9.65 Acres


CEQA Determination:   A Mitigated Negative Declaration has been prepared and circulated for
                      this project.

PLANNER:              Cindy Hom, Assistant Planner
GM2006-2, ZC2007-8, SZ2007-10, PD2007-1, MA2007-4, and EA2007-6,
Sinclair Renaissance Residential Project                                        Page 2



PJ:                      3211

ATTACHMENTS:
                         A. Planning Commission Resolution No. 08-020 ­ Exhibit 1. Conditions
                            of Approval, Exhibit 2. General Plan Map Amendment, and Exhibit
                            3: Zoning Sectional District Map
                         B. Project Plans
                         C. Project Description Letter
                         D. Mitigated Negative Declaration
                         E. Initial Study
                         F. Public Comment letter from Miller Starr Regalia
                         G. Applicant response letter dated 6/3/08
                         H. Tree Report prepared by HortScience dated December 2006
                         I. Traffic and Parking Impact Report prepared by Fehr and Peers dated
                         J. Stormwater Control Plan prepared by Carlson, Barbee, and Gibson
                            dated November 2007.
                         K. Noise Study prepared by Edward Pack & Associated dated
                         L. Geotechnical Report prepared by KC Engineering Company dated
                            October 2006.
GM2006-2, ZC2007-8, SZ2007-10, PD2007-1, MA2007-4, and EA2007-6,
Sinclair Renaissance Residential Project                             Page 3


                              LOCATION MAP




                                                         Project




                                                                   No scale
GM2006-2, ZC2007-8, SZ2007-10, PD2007-1, MA2007-4, and EA2007-6,
Sinclair Renaissance Residential Project                                                 Page 4


BACKGROUND
On March 10, 1983, the Planning Commission approved "S" Zone permit for the development of four
(4) low-rise concrete tilt-up industrial buildings and installation of various site improvement at the
project site. Ancillary improvements have been completed to the site since.

On May 14, 2007, Stephen Allen, Mission Peak Homes, submitted an application for the following
request:
       A General Plan Amendment to change the land use designation from "Manufacturing and
       Warehousing " to "Single Family Moderate Density,"
       A Zone Change to change the underlying zoning of the site from "Heavy Industrial" to "Single
       Family Residential minimum 3,000 square foot with the "S" Combining District" to ensure
       consistency between the modified General Plan land use designation and City zoning,
       Vesting Major Tentative Map to create residential and common lots (parks) and assign
       responsibility for maintaining infrastructure,
       Planned Unit Development to allow for diverse development standards for setbacks, and
       S-Zone permit (since changed to Site Development Permit) for site and architectural review of a
       new residential subdivision consisting (80) detached, two-story single family homes, .34 acre
       private park, and associated site improvements.

The application is submitted pursuant to Milpitas Municipal Codes: XI-1-4.00 (Tentative Maps), XI-
10-42.02 (Site Development Permit), XI-10-45.07 (Planned Unit Development Approval), XI-10-64.02
(Zoning Ordinance Administration and Amendments) and California Government Code Section 65350
(General Plan Amendment) for Planning Commission and City Council review and approval.

PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The proposed project area is a 9.65-acre site consisting of five parcels (APN 86-29-061, 062, 075, 076,
and 042) developed with four single-story, concrete tilt up industrial buildings, 190 non-native trees,
various site improvements, and an abandon railroad spur located along the western edge of the project
site.

The subject property is located on the west side of Sinclair Frontage Road, approximately 450 feet
south of the intersection with Los Coches Street in Milpitas, California. The project site is bounded by
single-family residential homes to the north, manufacturing and warehousing buildings to the west and
south, Sinclair Frontage Road and Interstate 680 to the east. The surrounding zoning includes Single
Family Residential with minimum lot sizes at 3,000 square feet (R1-3) to the north and Heavy
Industrial (M2) to the west and south. A vicinity map of the subject site location is included on the
previous page.

The project proposes to demolish the existing 121,746 square foot low-rise industrial park and
construct a new residential subdivision consisting of 80 detached, two-story residential homes, .34-acre
private park, and associated site improvements. The proposed new residential homes range in size
from approximately 2,057-2,227 square feet with 3-4 bedroom configurations.

Land Use Change
The project proposes a General Plan Amendment to re-designate the 9.65-acre site from
"Manufacturing and Warehousing" to "Single Family Moderate Density". To be consistent with the
GM2006-2, ZC2007-8, SZ2007-10, PD2007-1, MA2007-4, and EA2007-6,
Sinclair Renaissance Residential Project                                                 Page 5


General Plan, a zoning amendment of the project area from "Heavy Industrial" (M2) to Single Family
Residential minimum 3,000 square foot lots (R1-3) is proposed. The project area consists of five
parcels. The five parcels to be rezoned are shown in Figure 1.

                  Figure 1. General Plan Amendment and Rezone Project Area Map




The proposed land use changes a will ensure consistency of the project with those guiding and
implementing documents. See "Adopted plans and consistency" section of this report for more detail.

Vesting Tentative Map
The Vesting Major Tentative Map application has been submitted to subdivide the five existing parcels
in the project area to create 80 residential lots and nine common area parcels (Parcel A-I) as shown on
the Tentative Map Exhibit (Sheet TM-1). Common area parcels include streetscape parcels (Parcel A,
B, E and F) along Sinclair Frontage Road and the proposed entry road, a .34 acre private park (Parcel
D), a new Emergency Vehicle Access (EVA) road (Parcel C) located along the west property line that
extends to Wrigley Way, and the private street system (Parcel G, H, and I). The Tentative Map also
includes proposed grading, utility, and on/off-site improvement plans.
GM2006-2, ZC2007-8, SZ2007-10, PD2007-1, MA2007-4, and EA2007-6,
Sinclair Renaissance Residential Project                                                 Page 6


Planned Unit Development
The applicant is requesting a Planned Unit Development approval to deviate from the development
standards (indicated in bold text) provided in the R1-3 zoning district and summarized in Table 1
below.

                                                Table 1
                                      R1-3 Development Standards

                                            Zoning Ordinance                  Proposed
    Density (Maximum)                     6-15 Units/Gross Acre           8.29/Gross Acre
    Lot Area                                    3000 sq. ft.                    3,150
    Lot Width                                       30'                          45'
    Setbacks (Minimum)
      Front to Primary Structure                    20'                          12'
      Front to Street-facing Garage                                              18'
                                                                       4' with a5'exception for
      Interior Side                             5' one side
                                                                        side porch conditions
                                                                               7' porch
      Street Side (Corner Lots)                     10'
                                                                           10' living space
                                               15' one-story               15' (Plan 1 & 2)
      Rear
                                               20' two-story               5' (Plan 3 & 4)
    Building Height (Maximum)                       30'                          30'
                                                                       2 covered parking spaces
                                                                           (garage parking)
                                                                         2 uncovered parking
                                         2 permanently maintained
    Parking                                                           spaces (driveway parking)
                                          off street parking spaces
                                                                       and 31 on-street parking
                                                                       within the development.]


    Driveway Dimensions                           10'x20'                      10'x18'

The project proposes reduced front, side and rear setbacks that will enable the project to maintain a
compact urban form and meet the required density of the zoning district. The project also proposes
modified driveway dimensions due to the reduced front setbacks. As proposed, the project provides
articulated front elevations with enhanced entryways and landscaped front yards. Corner units will
utilize wrapped porches that provide neighborhood friendly orientation to streets. The project also
takes into consideration reduced rear yard setback. As proposed, placements of windows are offset to
ensure adequate privacy. In addition, rear elevations incorporated architectural details for visual
aesthetics.
GM2006-2, ZC2007-8, SZ2007-10, PD2007-1, MA2007-4, and EA2007-6,
Sinclair Renaissance Residential Project                                                   Page 7


PUD Findings
A Planned Unit Development may be granted providing the following findings can be made by the
City:
   1. The proposal will result in an intensity of land use no higher than and standards of open spaces
      at least as high as permitted or specified otherwise for such development in the General Plan,
      Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Ordinance.
       As proposed, the project is not proposing a higher density than allowed in the General Plan and
       the R1-3 zoning district. The project proposes g a density of approximately 8.29 units per gross
       acre, which is within the General Plan density requirement of 6 to 15 units per gross acre Single
       Family Moderate Density.
   2. The proposal will not create traffic congestion pursuant to the California Environment Quality
      Act (CEQA), or any impacts will be mitigated by traffic improvements, or if the impacts cannot
      be mitigated, necessary findings shall be made by the City pursuant to CEQA.

       A Transportation Impact Analysis was prepared by Fehr and Peers Traffic Transportation
       Consultants to analyze potential traffic and parking impacts (Attachment I). The proposed
       project is estimated to generate approximately 187 net new daily trips, 38 net new AM peak-
       hour trips, and 51 new PM peak-hour trips. The project would generate less than 100 net new
       peak-hour trips on a typical weekday. Project conditions would maintain LOS D or better on
       studied intersections. As such, the project would have a less than significant impact. However,
       under the Year 2030 conditions, the project is expected to have a cumulative impact on during
       the PM peak-hour for the following two segments:
               Northbound Milpitas Boulevard between Montague and Yosemite Drive.
               Eastbound Yosemite Drive between Milpitas Boulevard and Sinclair Frontage Road.
       To mitigate this cumulative impact, the project applicant shall pay a traffic impact fee for their
       proportionate contribution towards the Calaveras Boulevard (SR 237) Overpass Widening
       Project, Montague Expressway Widening Project, and South Milpitas Boulevard Smart Corridor
       Project.
   3. The maximum density shall be the upper density per gross acre as noted in the General Plan
      designation.
       The project is proposing a density that is consistent with the upper range of the allowable units
       per gross acre for the R1-3 zoning district.
   4. Development of the site under the provisions of the Planned Unit Development will result in a
      public benefit not otherwise attainable by application of the regulations of general zoning
      districts.
       The design flexibility provided by the PUD is allowing the project to develop urban infill site in
       an efficient manner. By allowing deviations from the strict application of the R1-3 zoning
       district, the applicant is able to provide detached single-family homes with front and back yards,
       which is unique in urban infill developments and contributes to the diversity of new housing
       units within the City.
   5. The proposed PUD is consistent with the General Plan.
GM2006-2, ZC2007-8, SZ2007-10, PD2007-1, MA2007-4, and EA2007-6,
Sinclair Renaissance Residential Project                                                   Page 8


       The project will be consistent with the General Plan guiding principles and implementing
       policies as analyzed in the "Adopted Plans and Ordinances Consistency" Section of this staff
       report.
   6. The proposed development will be in harmony with the character of the surrounding
      neighborhood and will have no adverse effects upon the adjacent or surrounding development.
       The project proposal provides detached single-family residential homes that are in the same
       character and relatively the same density as the existing residential development to the north.
       Land use compatibility with adjacent industrial uses is a concern. However, with the
       implementation of mitigation measures, such as sound walls to mitigate off-site noise, these
       compatibility concerns are lessened. Future residents will be given full disclosure that they will
       be residing next to I-680 and are located next to a Heavy Industrial zone. Moreover, businesses
       will need to adhere to local, state, and federal regulation regarding the use of chemicals and
       hazardous material and business operations.
PUD Conditions
The benefit of a Planned Unit Development is the uniformity and consistency of the project, which also
helps to maintain property values and overall appearance of the site. To maintain the consistency of the
development over time staff recommends the following conditions of the PUD:
   1. Re-roof materials shall be limited to concrete tiles.
   2. Building color changes shall be to the approval of the Planning Division.
   3. All garage doors shall be roll-up doors only.
   4. No garage conversions shall be allowed.
   5. Decorative street paving shall be maintained in perpetuity.
   6. Landscape and irrigation shall be maintained in perpetuity.
   7. Sound walls shall be maintained in perpetuity.
   8. Private park and passive play areas shall be maintained in perpetuity. Repair and replacement
      of park amenities shall be to the approval of the Planning Division.
   9. Front yard coverage is limited to vehicle driveways and paved walkways only. New curb cuts
      or driveway extensions are strictly prohibited.
   10. Exterior modifications shall be consistent with architectural design of the home in terms of
       colors, materials, and styles. Mixing of different styles is strongly discouraged. Architectural
       modification will require Home Owner Association approval prior to city approval.
   11. Require Conditions Covenants and Restrictions (CC&Rs) to include property disclosure
       statements to all future residents regarding noise due to the proximity of I-680 and adjacent
       industrial uses.
   12. Any modifications to the PUD development standards and special conditions will require an
       amendment to the Planned Unit Development Approval and require Planning Commission
       review and approval.
GM2006-2, ZC2007-8, SZ2007-10, PD2007-1, MA2007-4, and EA2007-6,
Sinclair Renaissance Residential Project                                                     Page 9


Site and Architecture Review
Site Layout and Access
The proposed layout of the project area entails a grid pattern with the homes orientated to the main loop
road and driveway aisles. The proposed private park is centrally located near the front of the
development on the west side of the entry road. A landscaped passive play area is proposed at the
southwest corner of project area and connects to the proposed emergency access road.

The proposed residential development will be served by a private street system with the main access
from Sinclair Frontage Road and a new 20-foot wide emergency vehicle access located on the
southwest portion of the project site near Wrigley Way. The private street system consists of a 36-foot
wide entry road, 32-foot wide loop road, and two 25-foot wide driveway alleys that run east-west.
Vehicle and pedestrian circulation will be provided by the loop road and entry road that will be
improved with 4-foot sidewalks on both sides of the road.
Parking
The project provides a total of (351) parking spaces, which includes (160) covered parking spaces
(garage parking), (160) uncovered parking spaces (driveways), and (31) on-street guest parking spaces
that are located on left side of the loop road.
Site Improvements
Proposed site improvements are summarized in the sections below:

Demolition ­ During construction it is proposed that approximately (190) non-native trees will be
removed. A tree report was performed to survey the conditions of the trees and project impacts. The
tree report dated December 2006 was prepared by HortScience. (Attachment H) Based on the tree
survey, there are 115 trees that are greater than 37-inches in circumference and are deemed protected
per Milpitas Municipal Code X-2-7.01. Any removal of "protected" trees shall be replaced at a ratio of
1:3. Out of the 190 trees to be removed, 115 are deemed "protected" trees. However the applicant is
proposing to replant 350 new trees consisting of 24-inch box trees and 15-gallon trees. As conditioned,
the applicant shall obtain a tree removal permit prior to the removal of any trees. For any tree that
cannot be mitigated due to lack of available planting area or construction conflict, the applicant shall be
required to pay a tree mitigation fee to the City of Milpitas. The funds will be deposited in the City's
Tree Replacement Fund and will be used to plant trees within the City of Milpitas.

Grading and Drainage ­ Under existing conditions, there is cross drainage between properties, which
is not permitted per current city engineering development standards. Currently, there is cross lot
drainage from the adjacent property to south that drains onto the project site. The project site has
portions of the property that drains to Wrigley and portions of the project site that drains across to the
adjacent property to the west. There is an existing V-ditch that also drains across the project site. To
correct this condition, the project proposes to grade the site and increase the pad elevations at various
locations to achieve an appropriate drainage pattern, and to accommodate installation of underground
utilities. The proposed grading will require construction of retaining walls along the west and north
boundaries and is depicted on the sections shown on the Grading and Utility Plan (Sheet TM-03).

Sound wall ­ Due to the proximity to I-680 and adjacent industrial land uses, a noise study that was
prepared for the project by Edward Pack & Associates dated December 2006. (Attachment K) As a
result, a sound wall will be required for noise attenuation purposes. The proposed sound wall will be
GM2006-2, ZC2007-8, SZ2007-10, PD2007-1, MA2007-4, and EA2007-6,
Sinclair Renaissance Residential Project                                                    Page 10


located on the eastern, southern, and western boundaries of the project site, which are depicted on the
Utility and Grading Plan (Sheet TM-03) and are summarized in Table 2.:

                                          Table 2: Wall Heights

Cross Sections (Sheet TM-03)        Location                         Height (max)
B-B                                 North property line              11' (6' wall on top of a 5'-6"
                                                                     retaining wall)
C-C                                  West property line              13' (6' wall on top of a 7'
                                                                     retaining wall)
D-D                                  South property line             16' tall wall that steps down to
                                                                     13'*
E-E                                  EVA Parcel                      3'-6" existing retaining wall.
                                                                     Proposes off-site area to be filled
* The applicant is requesting to raise the height of wall additional 3-feet to due to the noise concern
raised during the Community Meeting. The bottom of the wall will be designed to be retaining for
potential backfill in the future should the adjacent property owner decide to make site improvements.

The proposed sound wall consists of pre-cast concrete walls. The sound wall on Sinclair Frontage will
be approximately 16-feet tall and proposes a style design which matches the existing sound wall install
on the Sinclair Horizon project in terms of height, color, materials, and style. The proposed sound wall
will be articulated with the following:
        Decorative wall cap,
        Pilasters columns at corners and spaced every 25 ±-feet on center,
        2-inch raised halo panels, and
        Tiered landscaping consisting of (40) Chinese Pistache trees, evergreen vines, and various
        groundcover and shrubbery.
The south and west sound wall proposes a `Mediterranean' style and consists of pre-cast walls and
pilasters columns. Staff recommends adding decorative wall caps to architecturally blend and
complement the proposed sound wall located on Sinclair Frontage Road. As conditioned, the sound
wall and retaining walls will be designed and engineered in accordance with the recommendations and
design considerations contained in the Geotechnical Report prepared by KC Engineering dated October
2006. (Attachment L).

Open Space­ The project proposes a 0.34 acre park that will be improved with a play structure, picnic
seating areas, landscape amenities consisting of 24-inch box Raywood Ash trees, Flowering Pear trees,
and Bronze Loquat trees and various groundcover. The project plans also proposes a non-illuminated
concrete sign wall consisting of cultured stone, decorative cast stone wall cap, and a stucco sign band
with laser cut steel letters.

In addition, the project will also provide a 0.18-acre passive play area improved with landscaping
consisting of bench and trellis as well as various landscaping that includes 24-inch box Flowering Pear
trees and Purple Plum trees located at the southwest corner of the project site, near the proposed EVA
access road. Staff recommends as a condition of approval that an additional bench and trellis be add to
the opposite side of the passive play area to provide symmetry and to encourage use of the area.
GM2006-2, ZC2007-8, SZ2007-10, PD2007-1, MA2007-4, and EA2007-6,
Sinclair Renaissance Residential Project                                                     Page 11


The proposed EVA road will be improved with an asphalt concrete surface, bollards, and landscaping
that consist of Purple Leaf Plum trees, Crape Myrtle trees, and groundcover along the linear segment
between the residential homes and Wrigley Way.

As proposed, the site will be comprehensively landscaped with new plantings that includes various
groundcover, shrubs, vines, and (350) new tress consisting of various trees species that includes Red
Maples, Eastern Redbud, Bronze Loquat tress, Raywood Ash trees, Crape Myrtles, Chinese Pistache
trees, Purple Leaf Plum Trees, and Flowering Pear trees. Areas proposed with landscape amenities
include the following areas:
        Street frontages along Sinclair Frontage Rd.,
        Along the edges of entry road and EVA access road,
        Private open space areas (private park and passive play areas),
        Front yards on all residential lots and;
        Installation of one 15-gallon box Eastern Redbud tree in the rear yard of each residential lot.

Stormwater control measure will be implemented throughout the project and proposes the following:
      Utilize landscape and pervious surfaces for infiltration and disconnect impervious areas on the
      site,
      Bubble up area drain system on all lots to disconnect roof drainage and treat the flow as it
      passes through vegetated lawn area,
      Installation of a structural stormwater treatment unit a the point of connection at the southwest
      corner of the project site, and
      Earth swales.

Area Lighting - The project will provide 48 new 14-foot tall decorative streetlights that will be placed
along the entry road, loop road and driveway alleys. The proposed streetlight includes house side
shields to prevent unwanted glares. The applicant also proposes five 14-foot decorative light standards
that will be installed in the private park and passive play areas. The proposed area lights consist of
decorative carriage style light fixtures constructed with spear ornament and detailed edging mounted on
top of a decorative post shown on the Landscaping Details (Sheet L-03). A lighting plan was submitted
and demonstrates safe and efficient lighting.

Building Architecture, Colors, and Materials
The project proposed four plan types consisting of Craftsman, Spanish, and Tuscan style architecture
that utilizes "S" style and flat concrete tiles for the roof, wood construction, stucco walls with sand
finish, stone veneer, and metal accents. To enhance the appearance of the residential homes, the
applicant is proposing to incorporate architectural elements that includes but not limited to metal and
tile accent pieces, wooden shutters, metal awnings, metal railings, wooden porch rails, decorative
corbels, outlookers, kickers, and foam trim. The project proposes twelve color schemes than consist
mainly of earth tones. Articulation on the front elevations for each plan type are distinctive so that it
provides design and color variation that encourages interesting street scene.

ADOPTED PLANS AND ORDINANCES CONSISTENCY

General Plan
The table below outlines the project's consistency with applicable General Plan Guiding Principles and
Implementing Policies:
GM2006-2, ZC2007-8, SZ2007-10, PD2007-1, MA2007-4, and EA2007-6,
Sinclair Renaissance Residential Project                                                   Page 12



                                               Table 3
                                       General Plan Consistency

Policy                                      Consistency Finding
Guiding Principle 2.a-G-2:                  The project maintains compact form by proposing a
    Maintain a relatively compact form.     single-family moderate density (6-15 units per gross
                                            acre) residential project on 9.65-acre site.
Guiding Principle 2.a-G-3:                  The project offers detached single-family homes on
   Provide for a variety of housing         3,000 square foot lots that meet the needs of
   types and densities that meet the        individuals and families in a traditional neighborhood
   needs of individuals and families        setting.
Implementing Policy 2.a-I-2:                The project is proposes to redevelop an existing
   Promote develop within the               industrial park that has 80% vacancy. The site would
   incorporated limits which acts to fill   be an urban infill project and will not induce sprawl or
   in the urban fabric, rather than         require new public infrastructure to service the new
   providing costly expansion of urban      residential development.
   services into outlying areas.
Implementing Policy 2.b-I-3:                The project would contribute 80 new single-family
   Providing housing opportunities in       residential units towards regional housing goals.
   Milpitas by meeting the City's
   regional fair-share housing
   obligations.
Implementing Policy s.b-I2                  The project is located adjacent to industrial
   Consider locating housing in close       developments and would be served by existing city
   proximity to industrial                  services and facilities.
   developments where they can be
   served by existing city services and
   facilities

Zoning Ordinance
The project conforms to the R1-3-S Zoning District in terms of land use and density. As proposed the
project meets the ordinance regulations for a Planned Unit Development as analyzed in the sections
above. The project is consistent with purpose and intent of Site and Architectural Review Ordinance in
that it provides for an aesthetic and harmonious development. As proposed, the project is in the same
character and relative same density as the existing residential development to the north and with
implementation with mitigation measure will be compatible with surrounding industrial uses. As
proposed, the project utilizes good design principles in that the site design provides a grid pattern
layout and that the homes are articulated with Craftsman, Spanish, and Tuscan architecture and details
that provide good aesthetics and architectural interest.
State Subdivision Map and Milpitas Subdivision Ordinance
The State Subdivision Map Act defers to the local ordinance with respect to the approval of a tentative
tract map. The City's Subdivision Ordinance requires design and improvement consistent with the
General Plan. As proposed, and discussed above the project is consistent with the General Plan.
GM2006-2, ZC2007-8, SZ2007-10, PD2007-1, MA2007-4, and EA2007-6,
Sinclair Renaissance Residential Project                                                   Page 13



Per MMC XI-1-9.02, every subdivider must provide park and recreational facilities in form of land to
be dedicated, payment of a fee, or combination of both. The project proposes no pubic park space and
0.42 acres of private open space. Pursuant to MMC XI-9.08, a credit for private open space may be
obtained up to 40% of the total required parkland dedication provided project meets the ordinance
standards and City Council finds it in the public interest to do so. Based on the project proposal, 1.08
acre of parkland is required and therefore 0.65-acres is subject to payment. Therefore, the applicant
shall pay a park-in-lieu fee in the amount of $1,556,695.

C.3 Stormwater Requirements
In accordance with C.3 requirements, the applicant submitted a Stormwater C.3 Report prepared by
Carlson Barbee, and Gibson dated November 2007 (Attachment J). The project proposal demonstrates
compliance with C.3 requirements as discussed in the open space section of the staff report.

ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW
The Planning Division conducted an initial environmental assessment of the project in accordance with
the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). An Initial Study and Mitigated Negative
Declaration (EA2007-6) were prepared and circulated for this project (Attachment F and G). The
environmental assessment determined there would be no significant impacts related to this project.
Further discussion of potential impacts is included in the attached Environmental Assessment No.
EA2007-6. A mitigation monitoring program ensures that any potential environmental impacts are
lessened to a less than significant level. The twenty-day public review period was held from May 8,
2008 to May 28, 2008. One public comment to the Mitigated Negative Declaration was received at the
time of this staff report preparation and is provided with this staff report (Attachment H). Any
additional comments received will be presented at the Planning Commission hearing.

COMMUNITY MEETING
A community meeting was held on May 7, 2008 in the City Hall Committee Conference Room.
Notices of the meeting were sent to properties within a 1,000-foot radius. Three people attended the
meeting. Two were neighboring residence and the property owner from Crain Cutter. The issues
raised were in regards to the wall heights, views onto adjacent residential properties, grading, and
traffic concerns. The applicant has addressed these concerns by increasing the height of walls.
Enclosed with this staff report is a copy of the Applicant's response to the neighbor concerns.
(Attachment G)

PUBLIC COMMENT/OUTREACH
Staff publicly noticed the application in accordance with City and State law. As of the time of writing
one comment was received from the public regarding the proposed private park.

CONCLUSION
In conclusion, by changing the land use designation changes, the project is consistent with the proposed
land use. The project encourages compact urban infill development, provides for a variety of housing
types and densities to meet the demands of varying families, and provides housing opportunities in
Milpitas by contributing to the City's regional fair-share housing obligations.
GM2006-2, ZC2007-8, SZ2007-10, PD2007-1, MA2007-4, and EA2007-6,
Sinclair Renaissance Residential Project                                                  Page 14


As proposed the project meets the ordinance regulations for a Planned Unit Development as analyzed
in the PUD Findings discussed above. The project is consistent with purpose and intent of Site and
Architectural Review Ordinance in that the project is aesthetic and harmonious with the surrounding
development because it is in keeping with the same character and density as the existing residential
development to the north. Implementation of mitigation measures will ensure the project will be
compatible with surrounding uses. As proposed, the project utilizes good design principles in that the
site design provides a grid pattern layout and that the homes are articulated with Craftsman, Spanish,
and Tuscan architecture and details that provide good aesthetics and architectural

The project complies with the California Environmental Quality Act Guidelines. An Initial Study and
Mitigated Negative Declaration (EA2007-6) were prepared and circulated for this project. A mitigation
monitoring program for the project ensures that any potential environmental impacts are lessened to a
less than significant level.

RECOMMENDATION

STAFF RECOMMENDS THAT the Planning Commission adopt Resolution No. 08-020
recommending the City Council take the following actions: approve General Plan Amendment No.
GM2006-2, Zone Change No. ZC2007-8, "S" Zone No. SZ2007-10, Planned Unit Development No.
PD2007-1, Vesting Tentative Map No. MA2007-4, and Environmental Impact Assessment No.
EA2007-6, subject to the attached Conditions of Approval.

Attachments:
    A. Planning Commission Resolution No. 08-020 ­ Exhibit 1. Special Conditions of Approval,
        Exhibit 2. General Plan Map Amendment, and Exhibit 3: Zoning Sectional District Map
    B. Project Plans
    C. Project Description Letter
    D. Mitigated Negative Declaration
    E. Initial Study
    F. Public Comment letter from Miller Starr Regalia
    G. Applicant response letter dated 6/3/08
    H. Tree Report prepared by HortScience dated December 2006
    I.  Traffic and Parking Impact Report prepared by Fehr and Peers dated
    J.  Stormwater Control Plan prepared by Carlson, Barbee, and Gibson dated November 2007.
    K. Noise Study prepared by Edward Pack & Associated dated
    L. Geotechnical Report prepared by KC Engineering Company dated October 2006.
                                 RESOLUTION NO. 08-020

A RESOLUTION OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF MILPITAS,
CALIFORNIA, APPROVING GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT NO. GM2006-2, ZONE
CHANGE NO. ZC2007-8, "S" ZONE NO. SZ2007-10, PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
NO. PD2007-1, VESTING TENTATIVE MAP NO. MA2007-4, and ENVIRONMENTAL
IMPACT ASSESSMENT NO. EA2007-6, SINCLAIR RENAISSANCE RESIDENTIAL
PROJECT, A REQEUST TO CHANGE THE LAND USE DESIGNATION OF 9.65
ACRES FROM INDUSTRIAL TO RESIDENTIAL AND TO DEVELOP AN 80-LOT
RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION WITH ASSOCIATED SITE IMPROVEMENTS
LOCATED AT 245-373 SINCLAIR FRONTAGE ROAD (APN 86-29-061, 062, 075, 076,
and 042), ZONED HEAVY INDUSTRIAL WITH S-COMBINING DISTRICT (M2).

       WHEREAS, on May 14, 2007 an application was submitted by Stephen Allen, Mission
Peak Homes, 40480 Encyclopedia Cir., Fremont, CA 94538, to request for a General Plan
Amendment, Zone Change, Planned Unit Development Approval, Vesting Tentative Map, and
Site and Architectural Review to allow for the demolition of an existing four building industrial
park and to redevelop the 9.65 site with 80 new detached, two-story single family homes, 0.34
private park, and associated site improvements located at 245-373 Sinclair Frontage Road
located within the Heavy Industrial Zoning District (APN 86-29-061, 062, 075, 076, and 042),
and

       WHEREAS, the General Plan amendment would change the land use designation of
9.65 acres of land zoned Manufacturing and Warehousing to Single Family Residential
Moderate Density (6-15 unit/gross acre) (Planning Application P-GM2006-2), as further
shown on Exhibit A; and

        WHEREAS, the amended land use designation would change the corresponding zoning
designation from Heavy Industrial to Single Family Residential minimum 3,000 sq. ft. lots for
the project site as further shown on Exhibit B; and

        WHEREAS, the Planning Commission reviewed the Mitigated Negative Declaration
prepared for this project in accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act which
determined less than significant impacts on the environment from the development of the
Sinclair Renaissance Residential Project.

       WHEREAS, on June 25, 2008, the Planning Commission held a duly noticed public
hearing on the subject application, and considered evidence presented by City staff, the
applicant, and other interested parties.

       NOW THEREFORE, the Planning Commission of the City of Milpitas hereby finds,
determines and resolves as follows:

       Section 1: The recitals set forth above are true and correct and incorporated
       herein by reference.
Resolution No. 08-020                                                             Page 2

       Section 2: Pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of the California
       Environmental Quality Act, California Public Resources Code §§ 21000, et seq. (CEQA),
       an Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration was prepared and properly circulated for
       public review wherein it was determined that environmental impacts could be reduced to
       a level of less than significant through implementation of project requirements and
       mitigation measures; and

       Section 3: This General Plan amendment is accompanied by a proposal to change the
       Zoning District for the Property to Single Family Residential minimum lot size 3,000
       with "S" Zone Overlay District "R1-3-S" to ensure consistency with the General Plan;
       and

       Section 4: The Project conforms to the Milpitas Zoning Ordinance in that the proposed
       residential land use is permitted in the R1-3 Zoning District. As proposed the project
       meets the ordinance regulations for a Planned Unit Development in terms of density, site
       design, and architectural compatibility. The project is aesthetic and harmonious with the
       surrounding development because it is in keeping with the same character and density as
       the neighboring residential development to the north. Implementation of mitigation
       measures will ensure the project will be compatible with surrounding uses.

       Section 5: The Planning Commission held a properly noticed public hearing on June 25,
       2008 wherein the Planning Commission heard staff's report, took public testimony,
       considered the requested amendments and recommended the City Council approve the
       General Plan Amendment No.GM2006-2, Zone Change No. 2007-8, "S" Zone No.
       SZ2007-10, Planned Unit Development NO. PD2007-1, Vesting Tentative Map No.
       MA2007-4, and Environmental Impact Assessment No. EA2007-6.

PASSED AND ADOPTED at a regular meeting of the Planning Commission of the City of
Milpitas on June 11, 2008

                                            ______________________________________
                                                        Chair

TO WIT:

I HEREBY CERTIFY that the following resolution was duly adopted at a regular meeting of
the Planning Commission of the City of Milpitas on June 11, 2008, and carried by the following
roll call vote:

COMMISSIONER                  AYES      NOES         OTHER

Cliff Williams
Gunawan Ali-Santosa
Lawrence Ciardella
Resolution No. 08-020   Page 3


Alexander Galang
Sudhir Mandal
Gurdev Sandhu
Noella Tabladillo
Aslam Ali
Resolution No. 08-020                                                           Page 4


                                                                                  EXHIBIT 1

                       CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT NO. GM2006-2, ZONE CHANGE NO. ZC2007-8, "S"
 ZONE NO. SZ2007-10, PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT NO. PD2007-1, VESTING
TENTATIVE MAP NO. MA2007-4, and ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
      NO. EA2007-6, SINCLAIR RENAISSANCE RESIDENTIAL PROJECT

Planning Division
   1. GENERAL: The owner or designee shall develop the approved project in conformance
      with the approved plans and color and materials sample boards approved by the Planning
      Commission on June 11, 2008, in accordance with these Conditions of Approval.

      Any deviation from the approved site plan, floor plans, elevations, materials, colors,
      landscape plan, or other approved submittal shall require that, prior to the issuance of
      building permits, the owner or designee shall submit modified plans and any other
      applicable materials as required by the City for review and obtain the approval of the
      Planning Director or Designee. If the Planning Director or designee determines that the
      deviation is significant, the owner or designee shall be required to apply for review and
      obtain approval of the Planning Commission, in accordance with the Zoning Ordinance.
      (P)

   2. GENERAL: General Plan Amendment No.GM2006-2, Zone Change No. 2007-8, "S"
      Zone No. SZ2007-10, Planned Unit Development NO. PD2007-1, Vesting Tentative Map
      No. MA2007-4, and Environmental Impact Assessment No. EA2007-6 approvals become
      null and void if the project is not commenced within 18 months from the date of
      approval. Pursuant to Section 64.04-2 of the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Milpitas,
      since the project requires the issuance of a building permit, the project shall not be
      deemed to have commenced until the date of the building permit is issued and a
      foundation is completed. (P)

   3. GENERAL: Pursuant to Section 64.04-1, the owner or designee shall have the right to
      request an extension of General Plan Amendment No.GM2006-2, Zone Change No.
      2007-8, "S" Zone No. SZ2007-10, Planned Unit Development NO. PD2007-1, Vesting
      Tentative Map No. MA2007-4, and Environmental Impact Assessment No. EA2007-6 if
      said request is made, filed and approved by the Planning Commission prior to expiration
      dates set forth herein. (P)

   4. GENERAL: This use shall be conducted in compliance with all appropriate local, state,
      and federal laws and regulations, and in conformance with the approved plans. (P)
   5. SOUND WALL: Sound walls height shall not exceed height following heights noted in
      the following table: (P)
Resolution No. 08-020                                                                    Page 5



              Location                          Height (max) ­ measure from
                                                project pad elevation
              North property line               11' (6' wall on top of a 5'-6"
                                                retaining wall)
              West property line                13' (6' wall on top of a 7'
                                                retaining wall)
              South property line               16' tall wall that steps down to 13'


   6. SOUND WALL: The north and west sound walls shall include decorative wall caps to
      architecturally blend and complement the proposed sound wall located on Sinclair
      Frontage Road. (P)
   7. OPEN SPACE: Applicant shall provide additional bench and overhead trellis amenities
      on the southeast portion of the passive play area. (P)
   8. LANDSCAPING: Prior to building permit issuance, the following modifications shall be
      incorporated in revised landscaping plans to the approval of the Planning Division: (P)
        a.    Structural (amended) soil shall be used for all landscaping in the public right-of-way.
        b.    All landscape structures shall be of long-lasting and high-quality materials.
        c.    All ground transformer, utilities, and mechanical equipment shall be located
              underground or screen from all views. (P)

   9. SETBACKS: Interior lots with wrapped porch conditions shall maintain a 5-foot setback.

   10. COLOR PERMUTATIONS: Prior to building permit issuance, all color permutations for
       all buildings shall be submitted to the Planning Division for review and approval. (P)

   11. PARK-IN-LIEU FEE: The project applicant shall pay a park in-lie fee in the amount of
       $1,556,695 prior to certificate of occupancy. (P)

PLANNED UNIT APPROVAL CONDITIONS
   12. Re-roof materials shall be limited to concrete tiles. (P)
   13. Building color changes shall be to the approval of the Planning Division. (P)
   14. All garage doors shall be roll-up doors only. (P)
   15. No garage conversions shall be allowed. (P)
   16. Decorative street paving shall be maintained in perpetuity.
   17. Landscape and irrigation shall be maintained in perpetuity. (P)
   18. Sound walls shall be maintained in perpetuity. (P)
   19. Private park and passive play areas shall be maintained in perpetuity. Repair and
       replacement of park amenities shall be to the approval of the Planning Division. (P)
Resolution No. 08-020                                                                 Page 6

   20. Front yard coverage is limited to vehicle driveways and paved walkways only. New curb
       cuts or driveway extensions are strictly prohibited. (P)
   21. Exterior modifications shall be consistent with architectural design of the home in terms
       of colors, materials, and styles. Mixing of different styles is strongly discouraged.
       Architectural modification will require Home Owner Association approval prior to city
       approval. (P)
   22. Require Conditions Covenants and Restrictions (CC&Rs) to include property disclosure
       statements to all future residents regarding noise due to the proximity of I-680 and
       adjacent industrial uses. (P)
   23. Any modifications to the PUD development standards and special conditions will require
       an amendment to the Planned Unit Development Approval and require Planning
       Commission review and approval. (P)
Environmental Mitigation Measures

   24. The project shall comply with all mitigation measures as contained in the mitigation monitoring
      program for the Sinclair Renaissance Project. (P)

   25. AQ MM1: The applicant shall adhere to the following BAAQMD Best Management
       Practices during all phases of constructions:
          a. Water all active construction areas at least twice daily or as often as need to
              control dust emissions.
          b. Cover all trucks hauling soil, sand, gravel and other loose material and/or ensure
              that all trucks hauling materials maintain at least two feet of freeboard.
          c. Sweep daily or as often as needed with water sweepers all paved access roads,
              parking areas, and staging areas at the construction site to control dust.
          d. Sweep public streets daily or as often as needed to keep streets free from visible
              soil material.
          e. Enclose, cover, water twice daily or apply non-toxic soil binders to exposed
              stockpiles.
          f. Replant vegetation in disturbed areas as quickly as possible.

   26. BIO MM1: The applicant shall conduct a preconstruction survey for nesting raptors
       between September and January by a qualified ornithologist or wildlife biologist to
       ensure that no raptor nest will be disturb during demolition and construction activities.
       The survey shall be conducted no more than 14 day prior to the initiation of
       demolition/construction activities during the early part of the breeding season (January to
       April) and no more than 30 days prior to the initiation of these activities during the later
       part of the breeding season (May to August).                    During the survey, the
       ornithologist/biologist will inspect all trees for raptors nest. If an active raptor nest is
       found close enough to the demolition/construction area to be disturbed, the
       ornithologist/biologist (in consultation with the California Department of Fish and Game)
       will determine the extent of the construction free buffer zone to be established around the
       nest. The project will main the buffer zone, allowing no intrusion or impact to the tree(s)
       until after the young have fledge and are functioning independently of the nest. (P)
Resolution No. 08-020                                                               Page 7

   27. BIO MM2: In accordance with MMC X-2-7.01, the applicant shall obtain a tree removal
       permit prior to the removal of any trees. For any tree that cannot be mitigated due to lack
       of available planting area or construction conflict, the applicant shall be required to pay a
       tree mitigation fee to the City of Milpitas. Reimbursement to the City for the value of the
       tree(s) to removed will be determine by an arborist certified by the International Society
       of Aboriculture utilizing the current edition for the "Guide for Plant Appraisal, Inter
       Society of Aboriculture." The funds will be deposited in the City's Tree Replacement
       Fund and will be used to plant trees within the City of Milpitas. (P)

   28. CUL MM1: All ground disturbing activities shall be monitored by a qualified
       archaeologist to ensure that any discovery of significant archaeological materials and/or
       human remains is handled in accordance with approved guidelines. (P)

   29. GEO MM1: The applicant shall comply with the findings and recommendations
       contained in the Geotechnical Investigation Report, dated October 2006, prepared by KC
       Engineering Company. To ensure compliance with this mitigation, the applicant shall
       submit a letter from a licensed geotechnical engineer certifying that all of their
       recommendations have been incorporated into the construction drawings prior to issuance
       of any grading or building permit. Additionally, prior to obtaining a final, a certificate of
       occupancy, or any occupancy for the buildings, the applicant shall submit a letter from a
       licensed geotechnical engineer certifying that all of their recommendations have been
       satisfied. (P)
   30. GEO MM2: The following measures are included in the project to reduce potential
       construction related erosion impacts:
          a. All excavation and grading work will be scheduled in the dry weather months or
             construction sites will be weatherized to withstand or avoid erosion.
          b. Stockpiles and excavated soils will be covered with secured tarps or plastic
             sheeting.
          c. Vegetation in disturbed areas will be replanted as quickly as possible.
          d. Project will also adhere to the Regional Water Quality Control Board's best
             management practices to reduce construction related and post construction runoff
             impacts. (P)
   31. HAZ MM1: The project sponsor shall sample the soil within the project site to determine
       the presence or absence of pesticides and herbicides. If soil sampling indicates the
       presence of any contaminant in hazardous concentrations, the California Regional Water
       Quality Control Board (RWQCB) and Department of Toxic Substance Control (DTSC)
       shall be contacted to determine the level of any necessary remediation efforts. If required,
       the project sponsor shall remediate these soils in compliance with applicable laws. (P)

   32. HAZ MM2: Existing local, state and federal regulations and enforcement are effective
       forms of hazard mitigation for toxic gas safety and preventing any possible offsite
       consequences from catastrophic release.
Resolution No. 08-020                                                                 Page 8

   33. NOI MM1: The applicant shall incorporate and adhere to the recommendations and
       design standards set forth in the Traffic Noise Assessment dated December 15, 2006,
       prepared by Edward L. Pack Associates. (P)

   34. NOI MM2: Construction of 16-foot tall acoustically effective noise control barrier along
       the property line contiguous with Sinclair Frontage Road, a 12-foot acoustically-effective
       barrier at the south side of Lot 43 and north side of Lot 1, and a 16-foot that steps down
       to 8-feet tall along the southern property line according to the following schedule: (P)

          Lot #                                       Required Height of Fence
          Lot 6                                       16 ft. stepped down to 11 ft.
          Lot 7                                       11 ft.
          Lot 8                                       10 ft.
          Lot 9                                       9 ft.
          Lot 10                                      9 ft.
          Lot 11                                      8 ft.
          Lot 12                                      8 ft.
          Lot 13                                      8 ft.
          Lot 14                                      8 ft.
          Lot 15                                      8 ft.
          Lot 16                                      8 ft.
          Lot 17                                      8 ft.

   35. NOI MM3: Maintain closed at all times all first floor windows and glass doors of living
       spaces within 420 ft. of the centerline of the I-680 and with direct or side orientation
       towards the freeway. Install windows and glass doors rated minimum Sound
       Transmission Class (STC) 28. A disclosure statement shall be provided to all future
       property owners affected stating that windows and glass doors must be maintain the STC
       rating 28 or higher that were installed at the time of construction to main acceptable DNL
       noise exposures for single-family residents of 45 dB NDL. (P)

   36. NOI MM4: Maintain closed at all times all second floor windows and glass doors of
       living spaces within 420 ft. of the centerline of I-680 and with a direct or side orientation
       towards the freeway. At the living spaces within 340 ft. of the centerline, install windows
       and glass doors rated minimum STC 33. A disclosure statement shall be provided to all
       future property owners stating that windows and glass doors must maintain the STC
       rating 33 or higher that were installed at the time of construction to main acceptable DNL
       noise exposures for single-family residents of 45 dB NDL. (P)
Resolution No. 08-020                                                              Page 9

   37. NOI MM5: At living spaces between 340 ft. and 420 ft. of the centerline, install
       windows and glass doors rated minimum STC 27. A disclosure statement shall be
       provided for all future property owners affected stating that windows and glass doors
       must maintain the STC rating 27 or higher that were installed at the time of construction
       to main acceptable DNL noise exposures for single-family residents of 45 dB NDL. (P)

   38. NOI MM6: At the second floors of Lot 1 (east and north faces) and of Lot 43 (east and
       south facades) install windows and glass doors rated minimum STC 38. A disclosure
       statement shall be provided to all future property owners affected stating that windows
       and glass doors must maintain the STC rating 38 or higher that were installed at the time
       of construction to main acceptable DNL noise exposures for single-family residents of 45
       dB NDL. (P)

   39. NOI MM7: Second floor windows for homes located on lots 6-17 shall install windows
       and glass doors rated minimum STC 28. A disclosure statement shall be provided to all
       future property owners affected stating that windows and glass doors must maintain the
       STC rating 28 or higher that were installed at the time of construction to main acceptable
       DNL noise exposures for single-family residents of 45 dB NDL.

   40. NOI MM8: Provide mechanical ventilation for all residential living spaces that have
       closed window requirements. (P)

   41. NOI MM9: Prior to building permit issuance, applicant shall submit acoustical test report
       of all sound rated windows and doors. The report shall be review by a qualified
       acoustician to ensure that the chosen windows and doors will adequately reduce traffic
       noise to acceptable levels. (P)

   42. NOI MM10: Pursuant to the City of Milpitas Municipal Code, no person shall engage or
       permit others to engage in construction of any building or related road or walkway, pool
       or landscape improvement or in the construction operations related thereto, including
       delivery of construction materials, supplies, or improvements on or to a construction site
       except within the hours of 7:00 AM to 7:00 PM on weekdays and weekends. (P)

   43. NOI MM11: The contractor shall be required to use available noise suppression devices
       and properly maintain and muffle internal combustion engine-driven construction
       equipment. (P)

   44. NOI MM12: The contractor shall be required to use noise barriers or noise control
       blankets to shield stationary equipment from nearby noise-sensitive receptors. (P)

   45. NOI MM13: The contractor shall designate a disturbance coordinator and post the name
       and phone number of this person at easy reference points for the surrounding land uses.
       The disturbance coordinator would respond to all complaints about noise and take the
       necessary steps to reduce the problem. (P)
Resolution No. 08-020                                                               Page 10

   46. PUB MM1: The project applicant shall pay a park in-lie fee in the amount of $1,556,695
       prior to certificate of occupancy. (P)

   47. TRA MM 10: To mitigate this cumulative impact, the project applicant shall pay a traffic
       impact fee for their fair share contribution towards the Calaveras Boulevard (SR 237)
       Overpass Widening Project, Montague Expressway Widening Project, and South
       Milpitas Boulevard Smart Corridor Project. (P)
Engineering Division
   48. GENERAL: Prior to any building permit issuance, final map shall be recorded. (E)

   49. GENERAL: Prior to building permit issuance, the developer shall obtain approval from
       adjacent property owners on the west and South for construction and future maintenance
       of the proposed retaining and perimeter walls. (E)

   50. GENERAL: Prior to any work within public right of way or City easement, the developer shall
       obtain an encroachment permit from City of Milpitas Engineering Division. (E)

   51. GENERAL: It is the responsibility of the developer to obtain any necessary permits or
       approvals from affected agencies and private parties, including but not limited to, Pacific
       Gas and Electric, SBC, Comcast, Santa Clara Valley Water District, Santa Clara Valley
       Transportation Agency, City and County of San Francisco, and City of Milpitas
       Engineering Division. Copies of any approvals or permits must be submitted to the City
       of Milpitas Engineering Division. (E)

   52. GENERAL: The developer shall call Underground Service Alert (U.S.A.) at (800) 642-
       2444, 48 hrs prior to construction for location of utilities. (E)

   53. GENERAL: Prior to start of any construction, the developer shall submit a construction
       schedule and monitoring plan for City Engineer review and approval. The construction
       schedule and monitoring plan shall include, but not be limited to, construction staging
       area, parking area for the construction workers, personnel parking, temporary
       construction fencing, construction information signage and establish a neighborhood
       hotline to record and respond to neighborhood construction related concerns. The
       developer shall coordinate their construction activities with other construction activities
       in the vicinity of this project. The developer's contractor is also required to submit
       updated monthly construction schedules to the City Engineer for the purpose of
       monitoring construction activities and work progress. (E)

   54. GENERAL: The Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) issued by the Federal Emergency
       Management Agency (FEMA) under the National Flood Insurance Program shows this
       site to be in Flood Zone "X".(E)

   55. GENERAL: The developer shall obtain information from the US Postal Services
       regarding required mailboxes. Structures to protect mailboxes may require Building,
       Engineering and Planning Divisions review. (E)
Resolution No. 08-020                                                                    Page 11

   56. FINAL MAP: At the time of final map approval, the developer shall submit a grading
       plan and a drainage study prepared by a registered Civil Engineer. The drainage study
       shall analyze the existing and ultimate conditions and facilities. The study shall be
       reviewed and approved by the City Engineer and the developer shall satisfy the
       conclusions and recommendations of the approved drainage study prior to final map
       approval of the first phase of development. (E)

   57. CFD: Prior to any building permit issuance, the developer shall submit an executed
       petition to annex the subject property into the CFD 2005-1, with respect to the property,
       the special taxes levied by Community Facility District (CFD 2005-1) for the purpose of
       maintaining the public services. The petition to annex into the CFD shall be finalized
       concurrently with the final map recordation or prior to any building permit issuance,
       whichever occurs first. The developer shall comply with all rules, regulations, policies
       and practices established by the State Law and/or by the City with respect to the CFD
       including, without limitation, requirements for notice and disclosure to future owners
       and/or residents. (E)

   1. FINAL MAP: Prior to final map approval, the developer shall obtain design approval and bond
      for all necessary public improvements along Sinclair Frontage Road including but not limited to
      damaged curb, gutter and pavement replacement, slurry seal of the Sinclair Frontage Road to
      Wrigley Way new sidewalk installation, signage and striping, two vehicular feedback signs
      installation, street lights, fire hydrants, bus stop, Water main line installation, and storm drain,
      sewer and water services. Plans for all public improvements shall be prepared on Mylar (24"x36"
      sheets) with City Standard Title Block and submit a digital format of the Record Drawings
      (AutoCAD format is preferred) upon completion of improvements. The developer shall also
      execute a secured public improvement agreement. The agreement shall be secured for an amount
      of 100% of the engineer's estimate of the construction cost for faithful performance and 100% of
      the engineer's estimate of the construction cost for labor & materials. The locations of facilities
      such as water meters, RP backflow preventers, sewer clean outs, etc. shall be placed so access is
      maintained and kept clear of traffic. All improvements must be in accordance with the City of
      Milpitas standard and specification, and all public improvements shall be constructed to the city
      Engineer's satisfaction and accepted by the City prior to building occupancy permit issuance of
      the first production unit. (E)

   58. FINAL MAP: Prior to recordation of any final map, the developer shall submit to the
       City a digital format of the final map (AutoCAD format). All final maps shall be tied to
       the North America Datum of 1983 (NAD 83), California Coordinate of 1983, zone 3. (E)

   59. FINAL MAP: The developer shall dedicate on the final map necessary public service
       utility easements, street easements and easements for water and sanitary sewer purposes.
       (E)

   60. FINAL MAP: Prior to final map approval, the developer shall establish a homeowner
       association. The homeowner association shall be responsible for the maintenance of the
       landscaping, walls, private streetlights, common area and private streets and shall have
       assessment power. This information shall be clearly included in the Conditions,
       Covenants, and Restrictions (CC&R) and recorded documents. The CC&R document
       shall be submitted for review and approval by the City Engineer. (E)
Resolution No. 08-020                                                               Page 12



   61. FINAL MAP: Prior to the final map approval, the developer shall dedicate adequate right
       of way for pedestrian purposes crossing the driveways. (E)

   62. UTILITIES: In accordance with Chapter 5, Title VIII (Ord. 238) of Milpitas Municipal
       Code, for new and/or rehabilitated landscaping 2500 square feet or larger the developer
       shall:
           a. Provide separate water meters for domestic water service & irrigation service.
              Developer is also encouraged to provide separate domestic meters for each tenant.
           b. Comply with all requirements of the City of Milpitas Water Efficient Ordinance
              (Ord No 238). Two sets of landscape documentation package shall be submitted
              by the developer or the landscape architect to the Building Division with the
              building permit plan check package. Approval from the Land Development
              Section of the Engineering Division is required prior to building permit issuance,
              and submittal of the Certificate of Substantial Completion is required prior to final
              occupancy inspection.
   Contact the Land Development Section of the Engineering Division at (408) 586-3329 for
   information on the submittal requirements and approval process. (E)

   63. UTILITIES: Prior to issuance of any building permits, the developer shall obtain
       approval from the City Engineer of the water, sewer, and storm drain studies for this
       development. These studies shall identify the development's effect on the City's present
       Master Plans and the impact of this development on the trunk lines. If the results of the
       study indicate that this development contributes to the over capacity of the trunk line, it is
       anticipated that the developer will be required to mitigate the overflow or shortage by
       construction of a parallel line or pay a mitigation charge, if acceptable to the City
       Engineer. (E)

   64. UTILIES: It is anticipated that the on-site private storm drainage system will collect a
       certain amount of public stormwater runoff from Sinclair Frontage Road. Prior to
       building permit issuance, the developer shall enter into an agreement with the City for
       collecting, accepting, treating and conveying public runoff through private drainage
       system. (E)

   65. UTILITIES: The developer shall submit the following items with the building permit
       application and pay the related fees prior to building permit issuance:

           a. Storm water connection fee of $89,630 based on $1100 per parcel and $4792 per
               acre for the park. The water, sewer and treatment plant fee will be calculated at
               the time building plan check submittal.
           b. Water Service Agreement(s) for water meter(s) and detector check(s).
           c. Sewer Needs Questionnaire and/or Industrial Waste Questionnaire.
   Contact the Land Development Section of the Engineering Division at (408) 586-3329 to
   obtain the form(s). (E)
Resolution No. 08-020                                                              Page 13

   66. UTILITIES: Prior to building permit issuance, the developer shall pay its fair share cost
       of purchasing adequate public system sewage capacity for the development. Fees shall
       consist of treatment plant fees up to the Master Plan level and connection fees. Impact
       fees for discharges above master plan levels for sewage collection system infrastructure
       improvements, and regional plant capacity needs (above the master plan capacities), as
       determined by the City Engineer. This amount is estimated to be $81,695, as of October
       2006, to be adjusted by ENR at the time of payment. This impact fee is in addition to the
       City existing connection fee and treatment plant fee. (E)

   67. UTILITIES: The issuance of building permits to implement this land use development
       will be suspended if necessary to stay within (1) available water supplies, or (2) the safe
       or allocated capacity at the San Jose/Santa Clara Water Pollution Control Plant, and will
       remain suspended until water and sewage capacity are available. No vested right to the
       issuance of a Building Permit is acquired by the approval of this land development. The
       foregoing provisions are a material (demand/supply) condition to this approval. (E)

   68. UTILITIES: Prior to any building permit issuance, the developer shall provide for
       adequate sewage pumping capacity at the Milpitas Main Sewage Pump Station for the
       respective developments. The developer can fulfill this obligation by payment of $
       24,835 to the City for this purpose. This amount is as of October 2006, and to be adjusted
       by ENR at the time of payment. This impact fee is in addition to the City existing
       connection fee and treatment plant fee. (E)

   69. UTILITIES: Prior to building permit issuance; the developer shall pay its fair share cost
       of purchasing adequate public system water for the respective developments, including
       costs for capacity and storage needs above master plan capacities, as determined by the
       City Engineer. This amount is estimated to be $292, as of October 2006, to be adjusted
       by ENR at the time of payment. This impact fee is in addition to the City existing
       connection fee and treatment plant fee. (E)

   70. UTILITIES: Prior to building permit issuance, the developer must pay all applicable
       development fees, including but not limited to, connection fees (water, sewer and storm),
       treatment plant fee, plan check and inspection deposit, and 2.5% permit automation fee.
       (E)

   71. UTILITIES: In accordance with Milpitas Municipal Code XI-1-7.02-2, the developer
       shall underground all existing wires and remove the related poles within the proposed
       subdivision, with the exception of transmission lines supported by metal poles carrying
       voltages of 37.5KV or more do not have to be undergrounded. All proposed utilities
       within the subdivision shall also be undergrounded. Show all existing utilities within and
       bordering the proposed subdivision, and clearly identify the existing PG&E wire towers
       and state the wire voltage. (E)

   72. UTILITIES: All existing public utilities shall be protected in place and if necessary
       relocated as approved by the City Engineer. No permanent structure is permitted within
Resolution No. 08-020                                                              Page 14

      City easements and no trees or deep rooted shrub are permitted within City utility
      easements, where the easement is located within landscape areas. (E)

   73. TRAFFIC: Prior to any building permit issuance, the developer shall pay a Traffic Impact
       fee of $25,284 toward the Montague Expressway Widening project.

   74. TRAFFIC: Prior to any building permit issuance, the developer shall pay a "fair share"
       contribution of $5,600 towards the Calaveras Boulevard Widening and Improvement
       Project. (E)

   75. TRAFFIC: Prior to building occupancy permit issuance, the developer shall pay $50,000
       or bond for the future improvement along Sinclair Frontage Road. The improvements
       along Sinclair frontage Road shall be in accordance with the Traffic Study findings and
       recommendations. (E)

   76. TENTATIVE MAP: The tentative map and all final maps shall designate all common lots
       and easements as lettered lots or lettered easements. (E)

   77. SIGHT DISTANCE: The developer shall not obstruct the noted sight distance areas as
       indicated on the City standard drawing #405. Overall cumulative height of the grading,
       landscaping & signs as determined by sight distance shall not exceed 2 feet when
       measured from street elevation.

   78. SOLID WASTE: Per Chapter 200, Solid Waste Management, V-200-3.10, General
       Requirement, applicant/ property owner shall not keep or accumulate, or permit to be
       kept or accumulated, any solid waste of any kind and is responsible for proper keeping,
       accumulating and delivery of solid waste. In addition, according to V-200-3.20 Owner
       Responsible for Solid Waste, Recyclables, and Yard Waste, applicant / property owner
       shall subscribe to and pay for solid waste services rendered. Prior to occupancy permit
       issuance (start of operation), the developer shall submit evidence to the City that a
       minimum level of refuse service has been secured using a Service Agreement with Allied
       Waste Services (formally BFI) for commercial services to maintain an adequate level of
       service for trash and recycling collection. After the applicant has started its business, the
       developer shall contact Allied Waste Services commercial representative to review the
       adequacy of the solid waste level of services. If services are determined to be inadequate,
       the developer shall increase the service to the level determined by the evaluation. For
       general information, contact BFI at (408) 432-1234. (E)

   79. STORMWATER: The developer shall comply with Regional Water Quality Control
       Board's C.3 requirements and implement the following:
          a. At the time of building permit plan check submittal; the developer shall submit a
              "final" Stormwater Control Plan and Report. Site grading, drainage, landscaping
              and building plans shall be consistent with the approved Stormwater Control Plan.
          b. The Plan and Report shall be prepared by a licensed Civil Engineer and certify
              that measures specified in the report meet the C.3 requirements of the Regional
Resolution No. 08-020                                                              Page 15

              Water Quality Control Board (RWQCB) Order, and shall be implemented as part
              of the site improvements.

   80. STORMWATER: Prior to building permit issuance, the developer shall submit an
       Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Plan for the long-term operation and maintenance of
       C-3 treatment facilities, and prior to Building final inspection, the developer shall execute
       and record the City approved O&M Agreement for the operation, maintenance and
       annual inspection of the C.3 treatment facilities. (E)

   81. STORMWATER: All building permit applications shall be consistent with the
       developer's approved Stormwater Control Plan and approved special conditions. Permit
       applications shall include drawings and specifications necessary to implement all
       measures described in the approved Plan. Drawings submitted for permit applications
       shall show the details and methods of construction for site design features, including but
       not limited to pervious pavements, self-retaining areas, treatment BMPs, permanent
       source control BMPs, measures to limit directly connected impervious area, and other
       features that control stormwater flow and potential stormwater pollutants. Any changes to
       the approved Stormwater Control Plan shall require Site & Architectural ("S" Zone)
       Amendment application review. (E)

   82. STORMWATER: Prior to issuance of Certificate of Occupancy, the dedveloper shall
       submit a Stormwater Control Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Plan, acceptable to the
       City, describing operation and maintenance procedures needed to insure that treatment
       BMPs and other stormwater control measures continue to work as intended and do not
       create a nuisance (including vector control). The treatment BMPs shall be maintained for
       the life of the project. The stormwater control operation and maintenance plan shall
       include the applicant's signed statement accepting responsibility for maintenance until
       the responsibility is legally transferred. (E)

   83. STORMWATER: The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has empowered the
       San Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality Control Board (RWQCB) to administer the
       National Pollution Elimination Discharge System (NPDES) permit. The NPDES permit
       requires all dischargers to eliminate as much as possible pollutants entering our receiving
       waters. Construction activities which disturb 1 acres or greater are viewed as a source of
       pollution, and the RWQCB requires a Notice of Intent (NOI) be filed, along with
       obtaining an NPDES Construction Permit prior to the start of construction. A Storm
       Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) and a site monitoring plan must also be
       developed by the developer, and approved by the City prior to permit issuance for site
       clearance or grading. Contact the RWQCB for questions regarding your specific
       requirements at (800) 794-2482. For general information, contact the City of Milpitas at
       (408) 586-3329. (E)

   84. TREE REMOVAL Per Milpitas Municipal Code Chapter 2, Title X (Ord. No. 201), the
       developer may be required to obtain a permit for removal of any existing tree(s). Contact
       the Street Landscaping Section at (408) 586-2601 to obtain the requirements and forms.
       (P) (E)
Resolution No. 08-020                                                              Page 16



   85. DEMOLITION: All utilities shall be properly disconnected before the building can be
       demolished. Show (state) how the water service(s), sewer service(s) and storm service(s)
       will be disconnected. The water service shall be locked off in the meter box and
       disconnected or capped immediately behind the water meter if it is not to be used. The
       sanitary sewer shall be capped off at the clean out near the property line or approved
       location if it is not to be used. The storm drain shall be capped off at a manhole or inlet
       structure or approved location if it is not to be used. (E)

   86. DEMOLITION: Prior to demolition permit issuance, the Applicant, or Contracted
       Designee, shall submit Part I of a Recycling Report on business letterhead to the Building
       Division, for forwarding to the Engineering Section. This initial report shall be approved
       by the City's Utility Engineering/Solid Waste Section prior to demolition permit issuance.
       The report shall describe these resource recovery activities:
           a. What materials will be salvaged.
           b. How materials will be processed during demolition.
           c. Intended locations or businesses for reuse or recycling.
           d. Quantity estimates in tons (both recyclable and for landfill disposal). Estimates
              for recycling and disposal tonnage amounts by material type shall be included as
              separate items in all reports to the Building Division before demolition begins.
           e. Applicant/Contractor shall make every effort to salvage materials for reuse and
              recycling. (E)

   87. DEMOLITION: Prior to building permit issuance, applicant shall submit Part II of the
       Recycling Report to the Building Division, for forwarding to the City's Utility
       Engineering/Solid Waste Section, that confirms items 1 ­ 4 of the Recycling Report,
       especially materials generated and actual quantities of recycled materials. Part II of the
       Recycling Report shall be supported by copies of weight tags and/or receipts of "end
       dumps." Actual reuse, recycling and disposal tonnage amounts (and estimates for "end
       dumps") shall be submitted to the Building Division for approval by the Utility
       Engineering/Solid Waste Section prior to inspection by the Building Division. (E)

   88. DEMOLITION: All demolished materials including, but not limited to broken concrete
       and paving materials, pipe, vegetation, and other unsuitable materials, excess earth,
       building debris, etc., shall be removed from the job site for recycling and/or disposal by
       the Applicant/Contractor, all to the satisfaction of the City Engineer or designee. The
       Applicant/Contractor shall, to the maximum extent possible, reuse any useful
       construction materials generated during the demolition and construction project. The
       Applicant/Contractor shall recycle all building and paving materials including, but not
       limited to roofing materials, wood, drywall, metals, and miscellaneous and composite
       materials, aggregate base material, asphalt, and concrete. The Applicant/Contractor shall
       perform all recycling and/or disposal by removal from the job site. (E)

   89. TENTATIVE MAP: Make changes as noted on Engineering Services Exhibit "T"(dated
       3/28/2008) and submit a Mylar of the revised tentative map to the Planning Division
Resolution No. 08-020                                                           Page 17

      within three weeks of this tentative map approval. No application for the review of the
      parcel map or improvement plans will be accepted until this condition is satisfied. (E)
                               City of Milpitas                                                                                     Map Exhibit No. 1
                Sinclair Renaissance Residential Project
                        General Plan Amendment                                                                 Legend
                               June 2008               0                 75     150    225    300    375
                                                                                                                           Single Family Moderate Density (6-15 units/gross acre)
                                                                                Survey Feet




                                                                                                                                                                    SHIR




                                                                                                                      I-680




                                                                                                           D
                                                                                                        GER
                                                                                                      A         T
                                                                                                             RON
                                                                                                           F
                                                                                                                 IR    A
                                                                                                                    CL
                                                                                                                 SIN




                                                                                                                                                                     D EM
                                                                                                                                                                         PSEY
                                                                                                                                                                          R
                                                                                      WY
                                                                               LE Y
                                                                         W R IG

Resolution No. _____________            Application NO.: GM2006-2, ZC2007-8, SZ2007-10, PD2007-1, and MA2007-4                Map prepared by the GIS Staff of the City of Milpitas
                           City of Milpitas                                                                                          Map Exhibit No. 2
                 Sinclair Renaissance Residential Project
                         New Zoning Designations                                                                Legend
                      Sectional District Map No. 572    0                 75     150    225    300     375
                                                                                                                            Singel Family Residential minimum lot size 3,000 sq. ft. (R1-3)
                                                                                 Survey Feet




                                                                                                                                                                       SHIR




                                                                                                                       I-680




                                                                                                            D
                                                                                                         GER
                                                                                                       A          T
                                                                                                               RON
                                                                                                             F
                                                                                                                 IR     A
                                                                                                                     CL
                                                                                                                  SIN




                                                                                                                                                                        D EM
                                                                                                                                                                            PSEY
                                                                                                                                                                             R
                                                                                       WY
                                                                                LE Y
                                                                          W R IG

Ordinance No. 38.779           Application NO.:GM2006-2, ZC2007-8, SZ2007-10, PD2007-1, and MA2007-4                           Map prepared by the GIS Staff of the City of Milpitas
               MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION
        ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA) NO. EA2007-6

A NOTICE, PURSUANT TO THE CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
ACT OF 1970, AS AMENDED (PUBLIC RESOURCES CODE 21,000 ET SEQ.),
THAT THE SINCLAIR RENAISSANCE RESIDENTIAL PROJECT, WHEN
IMPLEMENTED WITH THE REQUIRED MITIGATIONS, WILL NOT HAVE A
SIGNIFICANT IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT.

Project Title: Sinclair Renaissance Residential Project

Project Description: An application has been filed with the City of Milpitas for the
following request:
    · General Plan Amendment to change the land use designation from
       "Manufacturing and Warehousing " to "Single Family Moderate Density,"
    · Zone Change from "Heavy Industrial" to "Single Family Residential minimum
       3,000 square foot" to ensure consistency between the modified General Plan land
       use designation and City zoning,
    · Vesting Major Tentative Map to create all "for sale" housing units,
    · Planned Unit Development to allow for diverse development standards for
       setbacks, and
    · Site and Architectural Review for the new residential subdivision.

The project proposal entails demolition of an existing low-rise industrial business park
that contains approximately 121,746 square feet of building floor space and existing site
improvements. The applicant proposes to redevelop the site with 80 detached, two-story,
single family residential homes, .42 acres of private open space that includes a .34 acre
private park and .18 acres of passive play area, and installation of associated site
improvements and landscaping.

Project Location: The proposed project area is a 9.65-acre site consisting of five parcels
(APN 86-29-061, 062, 075, 076, and 042) located along the west side of Sinclair
Frontage Road, south of the Los Coches Street in Milpitas, California.

Project Proponent: Stephen Allen, Mission Peak Homes, 40480 Encyclopedia Circle,
Fremont, CA 94538.

The City of Milpitas has reviewed the Environmental Impact Assessment for the above
project based on the information contained in the Environmental Information Form and
the Initial Study and finds that the project will have no significant impact upon the
environment with the implementation of the following mitigation measures, as
recommended in the EIA.


                                            1                             EIA No. EA2007-6
Summary of Impacts and Mitigation Measures:

I. Air Quality

       Impact AIR 1: Construction-related air emissions can be a potentially significant
       impact on sensitive receptors. Air quality impacts associated with construction
       activities are anticipated to consist of airborne dust particulate matter (PM10) as
       earthwork commences. This stray dust has the potential for exposing sensitive
       receptors to substantial pollutants and odors, therefore it could be considered
       significant on a temporary and localized basis. However, the impact can be
       reduced to a less-than-significant level through adherence to Mitigation Measures.
       The Bay Area Quality Management District provides control measures that would
       be applied to this project, such as watering construction areas, covering trucks,
       and daily sweeping, for construction emissions of PM10 that, when implemented,
       would reduce the impact of air pollutant emissions from construction activities to
       a level considered less than significant


       AQ MM1: The applicant shall adhere to the following BAAQMD Best
       Management Practices during all phases of constructions:
       · Water all active construction areas at least twice daily or as often as need to
         control dust emissions.
       · Cover all trucks hauling soil, sand, gravel and other loose material and/or
         ensure that all trucks hauling materials maintain at least two feet of freeboard.
       · Sweep daily or as often as needed with water sweepers all paved access roads,
         parking areas, and staging areas at the construction site to control dust.
       · Sweep public streets daily or as often as needed to keep streets free from
         visible soil material.
       · Enclose, cover, water twice daily or apply non-toxic soil binders to exposed
         stockpiles.
       · Replant vegetation in disturbed areas as quickly as possible.

II. Biological Resources

       Impact BIO 1: The removal of existing mature trees on the site could disturb
       nesting habitat for raptors and have a potential significant impact. However, the
       impact can be reduced to less than significant with implementation of the
       following mitigation:

       BIO MM1: The applicant shall conduct a preconstruction survey for nesting
       raptors between September and January by a qualified ornithologist or wildlife
       biologist to ensure that no raptor nest will be disturb during demolition and
       construction activities. The survey shall be conducted no more than 14 day prior
       to the initiation of demolition/construction activities during the early part of the
       breeding season (January to April) and no more than 30 days prior to the initiation
       of these activities during the later part of the breeding season (May to August).


                                            2                             EIA No. EA2007-6
      During the survey, the ornithologist/biologist will inspect all trees for raptors nest.
      If an active raptor nest is found close enough to the demolition/construction area
      to be disturbed, the ornithologist/biologist (in consultation with the California
      Department of Fish and Game) will determine the extent of the construction free
      buffer zone to be established around the nest. The project will main the buffer
      zone, allowing no intrusion or impact to the tree(s) until after the young have
      fledge and are functioning independently of the nest.

      Impact BIO 2: Per MMC X-2-7.01, trees that have thirty-seven inch
      circumference or greater is deemed "protected." Any removal of "protected"
      trees shall be replaced at a ratio of 1:3. Out of the 190 trees to be removed, 115
      are deemed "protected" trees. The impact would be less than significant with
      mitigation because the applicant is proposing to replant 350 new trees.

      BIO MM2: In accordance with MMC X-2-7.01, the applicant shall obtain a tree
      removal permit prior to the removal of any trees. For any tree that cannot be
      mitigated due to lack of available planting area or construction conflict, the
      applicant shall be required to pay a tree mitigation fee to the City of Milpitas.
      Reimbursement to the City for the value of the tree(s) to removed will be
      determine by an arborist certified by the International Society of Aboriculture
      utilizing the current edition for the "Guide for Plant Appraisal, Inter Society of
      Aboriculture." The funds will be deposited in the City's Tree Replacement Fund
      and will be used to plant trees within the City of Milpitas.

III. Cultural Resources

      Impact CUL 1: Construction of the proposed project could result in impacts to
      unknown buried archaeological resources.         Implementation of the below
      mitigation measure can help reduce the impact to less than significant.

      CUL MM1: All ground disturbing activities shall be monitored by a qualified
      archaeologist to ensure that any discovery of significant archaeological materials
      and/or human remains is handled in accordance with approved guidelines.

VI. Geology and Soils

      Impact GEO 1: The site contains potential liquefiable soils and subject to
      settlements during a seismic event. The impact can mitigated to be a less than
      significant impact by incorporating the design recommendations into the project
      plans and specifications.

      GEO MM1: The applicant shall comply with the findings and recommendations
      contained in the Geotechnical Investigation Report, dated October 2006, prepared
      by KC Engineering Company. To ensure compliance with this mitigation, the
      applicant shall submit a letter from a licensed geotechnical engineer certifying
      that all of their recommendations have been incorporated into the construction



                                            3                              EIA No. EA2007-6
      drawings prior to issuance of any grading or building permit. Additionally, prior
      to obtaining a final, a certificate of occupancy, or any occupancy for the
      buildings, the applicant shall submit a letter from a licensed geotechnical engineer
      certifying that all of their recommendations have been satisfied.

      Impact GEO 2: Implementation of the proposed project would result in increase
      erosion and loss of topsoil until the project is constructed and new vegetation is
      established.

      GEO MM2: The following measures are included in the project to reduce
      potential construction related erosion impacts:
        ·    All excavation and grading work will be scheduled in the dry weather
             months or construction sites will be weatherized to withstand or avoid
             erosion.
        ·    Stockpiles and excavated soils will be covered with secured tarps or
             plastic sheeting.
        ·    Vegetation in disturbed areas will be replanted as quickly as possible.
        ·    Project will also adhere to the Regional Water Quality Control Board's
             best management practices to reduce construction related and post
             construction runoff impacts.

V. Hazards and Hazardous Materials

      Impact HAZ 1: Since the project site was once used for agriculture, it could
      have a potential significant impact if hazardous agricultural chemicals such as
      herbicides, pesticides, and the like were used when the property. However, the
      impact can be reduced to a level of less than significant with following mitigation:

      HAZ MM1: The project sponsor shall sample the soil within the project site to
      determine the presence or absence of pesticides and herbicides. If soil sampling
      indicates the presence of any contaminant in hazardous concentrations, the
      California Regional Water Quality Control Board (RWQCB) and Department of
      Toxic Substance Control (DTSC) shall be contacted to determine the level of any
      necessary remediation efforts. If required, the project sponsor shall remediate
      these soils in compliance with applicable laws.

      Impact HAZ 2: The project site will locate sensitive receptors within proximity
      to chemical and hazardous users. In event of an accidental release, sensitive
      receptors may be exposed to toxic chemicals or hazardous materials, which can be
      a potential significant impact. However, given existing local, state, and federal
      regulation, enforcement, engineering and process safeguards already in place, the
      impact can be considered less than significant with mitigation.




                                           4                             EIA No. EA2007-6
      HAZ MM2: Existing local, state and federal regulations and enforcement are
      effective forms of hazard mitigation for toxic gas safety and preventing any
      possible offsite consequences from catastrophic release.

XI. Noise

      Impact NOI 1: Anticipated noise level exposures will exceed acceptable noise
      levels thresholds specified in the Milpitas General Plan Noise Element. However
      the impact is less than significant with implementation of the following noise
      mitigation measures and by incorporating design standards that would minimize
      noise exposures to acceptable levels.

      NOI MM1: The applicant shall incorporate and adhere to the recommendations
      and design standards set forth in the Traffic Noise Assessment dated December
      15, 2006, prepared by Edward L. Pack Associates.

      NOI MM2: Construction of 16-foot tall acoustically effective noise control
      barrier along the property line contiguous with Sinclair Frontage Road, a 12-foot
      acoustically-effective barrier at the south side of Lot 43 and north side of Lot 1,
      and a 16-foot that steps down to 8-feet tall along the southern property line
      according to the following schedule:

      Lot #                                       Required Height of Fence
      Lot 6                                       16 ft. stepped down to 11 ft.
      Lot 7                                       11 ft.
      Lot 8                                       10 ft.
      Lot 9                                       9 ft.
      Lot 10                                      9 ft.
      Lot 11                                      8 ft.
      Lot 12                                      8 ft.
      Lot 13                                      8 ft.
      Lot 14                                      8 ft.
      Lot 15                                      8 ft.
      Lot 16                                      8 ft.
      Lot 17                                      8 ft.

      NOI MM3: Maintain closed at all times all first floor windows and glass doors
      of living spaces within 420 ft. of the centerline of the I-680 and with direct or side
      orientation towards the freeway. Install windows and glass doors rated minimum
      Sound Transmission Class (STC) 28. A disclosure statement shall be provided to
      all future property owners affected stating that windows and glass doors must be
      maintain the STC rating 28 or higher that were installed at the time of
      construction to main acceptable DNL noise exposures for single-family residents
      of 45 dB NDL.




                                            5                              EIA No. EA2007-6
NOI MM4: Maintain closed at all times all second floor windows and glass
doors of living spaces within 420 ft. of the centerline of I-680 and with a direct or
side orientation towards the freeway. At the living spaces within 340 ft. of the
centerline, install windows and glass doors rated minimum STC 33. A disclosure
statement shall be provided to all future property owners stating that windows and
glass doors must maintain the STC rating 33 or higher that were installed at the
time of construction to main acceptable DNL noise exposures for single-family
residents of 45 dB NDL.


NOI MM5: At living spaces between 340 ft. and 420 ft. of the centerline, install
windows and glass doors rated minimum STC 27. A disclosure statement shall be
provided for all future property owners affected stating that windows and glass
doors must maintain the STC rating 27 or higher that were installed at the time of
construction to main acceptable DNL noise exposures for single-family residents
of 45 dB NDL.

NOI MM6: At the second floors of Lot 1 (east and north faces) and of Lot 43
(east and south facades) install windows and glass doors rated minimum STC 38.
A disclosure statement shall be provided to all future property owners affected
stating that windows and glass doors must maintain the STC rating 38 or higher
that were installed at the time of construction to main acceptable DNL noise
exposures for single-family residents of 45 dB NDL.

NOI MM7: Second floor windows for homes located on lots 6-17 shall install
windows and glass doors rated minimum STC 28. A disclosure statement shall be
provided to all future property owners affected stating that windows and glass
doors must maintain the STC rating 28 or higher that were installed at the time of
construction to main acceptable DNL noise exposures for single-family residents
of 45 dB NDL.

NOI MM8: Provide mechanical ventilation for all residential living spaces that
have closed window requirements.

NOI MM9: Prior to building permit issuance, applicant shall submit acoustical
test report of all sound rated windows and doors. The report shall be review by a
qualified acoustician to ensure that the chosen windows and doors will adequately
reduce traffic noise to acceptable levels.

Impact NOI 2: The project site is bordered by existing residential land uses to the
north. Noise generated by construction activities would have a significant
temporary impact on nearby sensitive receptors. However, the Milpitas General
Plan adopted Noise Policy 6-I-13, which restricts the hours of operation,
technique, and equipment used in all public and private construction activities to
minimize noise impact. With implementation of the following mitigation
measure, the impact would be less than significant.



                                      6                             EIA No. EA2007-6
       NOI MM10: Pursuant to the City of Milpitas Municipal Code, no person shall
       engage or permit others to engage in construction of any building or related road
       or walkway, pool or landscape improvement or in the construction operations
       related thereto, including delivery of construction materials, supplies, or
       improvements on or to a construction site except within the hours of 7:00 AM to
       7:00 PM on weekdays and weekends.

       NOI MM11: The contractor shall be required to use available noise suppression
       devices and properly maintain and muffle internal combustion engine-driven
       construction equipment.

       NOI MM12: The contractor shall be required to use noise barriers or noise
       control blankets to shield stationary equipment from nearby noise-sensitive
       receptors.

       NOI MM13: The contractor shall designate a disturbance coordinator and post
       the name and phone number of this person at easy reference points for the
       surrounding land uses. The disturbance coordinator would respond to all
       complaints about noise and take the necessary steps to reduce the problem.

XII. Public Services

       Impact PUB 1: The project will add 309 new residents and will have an
       incremental impact on existing park system. However, the project is anticipated
       to have less than a significant impact to park and open resources with
       implementation of the following mitigation measure.

       PUB MM1: The project applicant shall pay a park in-lie fee in the amount of
       $1,556,695 prior to certificate of occupancy.

XV. Transportation/Traffic

       Impact TRA 10: The project is anticipates a potential cumulative impact with
       regard to the LOS on the Northbound Milpitas Boulevard road segment between
       Montague and Yosemite Drive and on the Eastbound Yosemite Drive road
       segment between Milpitas Boulevard and Sinclair Frontage Road. However, the
       impact is less than significant with mitigation.

       TRA MM 10: To mitigate this cumulative impact, the project applicant shall pay
       a traffic impact fee for their fair share contribution towards the Calaveras
       Boulevard (SR 237) Overpass Widening Project, Montague Expressway
       Widening Project, and South Milpitas Boulevard Smart Corridor Project.

Copies of the E.I.F. and E.I.A. may be obtained at the Milpitas Planning Department, 455
E. Calaveras Boulevard, Milpitas, CA 95035.



                                            7                            EIA No. EA2007-6
By:_____________________
      Project Planner




                           8   EIA No. EA2007-6
                                                  MITIGATION MONITORING PROGRAM

                                      SINCLAIR RENAISSANCE RESIDENTIAL PROJECT
                                    ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT NO. EA2007-6


Mitigation Measure                                            Implementation,              Monitoring           Shown on      Verified        Remarks
                                                              Responsibility & timing      Responsibility       Plans         Implement.
Mitigation Measure Air Quality 1:
The applicant shall adhere to the following BAAQMD            Responsibility: Applicant    Responsibility:
Best Management Practices during all phases of                Timing: Prior to any         Building Division,   initials      initials
constructions:                                                demolition or grading.       Public Works, Land   __________    __________
     · Water all active construction areas at least                                        Development          date          date
          twice daily or as often as need to control dust                                  Section, and
          emissions.                                                                       Planning Division
     · Cover all trucks hauling soil, sand, gravel and
          other loose material and/or ensure that all
          trucks hauling materials maintain at least two
          feet of freeboard.
     · Sweep daily or as often as needed with water
          sweepers all paved access roads, parking
          areas, and staging areas at the construction site
          to control dust.
     · Sweep public streets daily or as often as
          needed to keep streets free from visible soil
          material.
     · Enclose, cover, water twice daily or apply
          non-toxic soil binders to exposed stockpiles.
     · Replant vegetation in disturbed areas as
          quickly as possible.
Mitigation Measure Biological Resources 1:
The applicant shall conduct a preconstruction survey          Responsibility: Applicant    Responsibility:      initials      initials
for nesting raptors between September and January by          Timing: Prior to any         Planning Division    __________    __________
a qualified ornithologist or wildlife biologist to ensure     demolition or construction                        date          date
that no raptor nest will be disturb during demolition         activities
and construction activities. The survey shall be
conducted no more than 14 day prior to the initiation of
demolition/construction activities during the early part




                                                                                                                           EIA No. EA2007-6
of the breeding season (January to April) and no more
than 30 days prior to the initiation of these activities
during the later part of the breeding season (May to
August). During the survey, the ornithologist/biologist
will inspect all trees for raptors nest. If an active raptor
nest is found close enough to the
demolition/construction area to be disturbed, the
ornithologist/biologist (in consultation with the
California Department of Fish and Game) will
determine the extent of the construction free buffer
zone to be established around the nest. The project will
main the buffer zone, allowing no intrusion or impact
to the tree(s) until after the young have fledge and are
functioning independently of the nest.
Mitigation Measure Biological Resource 2:
In accordance with MMC X-2-7.01, the applicant shall           Responsibility: Applicant      Responsibility:      initials     initials
obtain a tree removal permit prior to the removal of any       Timing: Prior to issuance of   Planning Division    __________   __________
trees. For any tree that cannot be mitigated due to lack       any building permits.                               date         date
of available planting area or construction conflict, the
applicant shall be required to pay a tree mitigation fee
to the City of Milpitas. Reimbursement to the City for
the value of the tree(s) to removed will be determine by
an arborist certified by the International Society of
Aboriculture utilizing the current edition for the "Guide
for Plant Appraisal, Inter Society of Aboriculture."
The funds will be deposited in the City's Tree
Replacement Fund and will be used to plant trees
within the City of Milpitas.

Mitigation Measure Cultural Resources 1:                       Responsibility: Applicant      Responsibility:      initials     initials
All ground disturbing activities shall be monitored by a       Timing: Prior to an            Planning Division    __________   __________
qualified archaeologist to ensure that any discovery of        grubbing or grading                                 date         date
significant archaeological materials and/or human              activities
remains is handled in accordance with approved
guidelines.
Mitigation Measure Geology 1:
The applicant shall comply with the findings and               Responsibility: Applicant      Responsibility:      initials     initials
recommendations contained in the Geotechnical                  Timing: Prior to issuance of   Building Division,   __________   __________
Investigation Report, dated October 2006, prepared by          any building permits.          Land Development     date         date
KC Engineering Company. To ensure compliance with                                             Section, Planning
this mitigation, the applicant shall submit a letter from                                     Division




                                                                                                                            EIA No. EA2007-6
a licensed geotechnical engineer certifying that all of
their recommendations have been incorporated into the
construction drawings prior to issuance of any grading
or building permit. Additionally, prior to obtaining a
final, a certificate of occupancy, or any occupancy for
the buildings, the applicant shall submit a letter from a
licensed geotechnical engineer certifying that all of
their recommendations have been satisfied.
Mitigation Measure Geology 2:
 The following measures are included in the project to      Responsibility: Applicant      Responsibility:        initials     initials
reduce potential construction related erosion impacts:      Timing: Prior to issuance of   Building Division,     __________   __________
      · All excavation and grading work will be             any building permits.          Land Development       date         date
          scheduled in the dry weather months or                                           Section, Planning
          construction sites will be weatherized to                                        Division
          withstand or avoid erosion.
      · Stockpiles and excavated soils will be covered
          with secured tarps or plastic sheeting.
      · Vegetation in disturbed areas will be replanted
          as quickly as possible.
      · Project will also adhere to the Regional Water
          Quality Control Board's best management
          practices to reduce construction related and
          post construction runoff impacts.
Mitigation Measure Hazardous Material 1:The
project sponsor shall sample the soil within the project    Responsibility: Applicant      Responsibility:        initials     initials
site to determine the presence or absence of pesticides     Timing: Prior to issuance of   Planning Division,     __________   __________
and herbicides. If soil sampling indicates the presence     any building permits.          Fire Prevention        date         date
of any contaminant in hazardous concentrations, the                                        Services
California Regional Water Quality Control Board
(RWQCB) and Department of Toxic Substance Control
(DTSC) shall be contacted to determine the level of any
necessary remediation efforts. If required, the project
sponsor shall remediate these soils in compliance with
applicable laws.
Mitigation Measure Hazards and Hazardous
Material 2:                                                 Responsibility: Applicant      Responsibility:        initials     initials
Existing local, state and federal regulations and           Timing: In perpetuity          All affected parties   __________   __________
enforcement are effective forms of hazard mitigation                                                              date         date
for toxic gas safety and preventing any possible offsite
consequences from catastrophic release.




                                                                                                                           EIA No. EA2007-6
Mitigation Measure Noise 1:
The applicant shall incorporate and adhere to the           Responsibility: Applicant      Responsibility:      initials     initials
recommendations and design standards set forth in the       Timing: Prior to issuance of   Building Division,   __________   __________
Traffic Noise Assessment dated December 15, 2006,           any building permits.          Planning Division    date         date
prepared by Edward L. Pack Associates.
Mitigation Measure Noise 2:
Construction of 16-foot tall acoustically effective noise   Responsibility: Applicant      Responsibility:      initials     initials
control barrier along the property line contiguous with     Timing: Prior to issuance of   Building Division,   __________   __________
Sinclair Frontage Road, a 12-foot acoustically-effective    any building permits.          Planning Division    date         date
barrier at the south side of Lot 43 and north side of Lot
1, and a 16-foot that steps down to 8-feet tall along the
southern property line according to the following
schedule:
 Lot #                Required Height of Fence
 Lot 6                16 ft. stepped down to 11 ft.
 Lot 7                11 ft.
 Lot 8                10 ft.
 Lot 9                9 ft.
 Lot 10               9 ft.
 Lot 11               8 ft.
 Lot 12               8 ft.
 Lot 13               8 ft.
 Lot 14               8 ft.
 Lot 15               8 ft.
 Lot 16               8 ft.
 Lot 17               8 ft.

Mitigation Measure Noise 3:
Maintain closed at all times all first floor windows and    Responsibility: Applicant      Responsibility:      initials     initials
glass doors of living spaces within 420 ft. of the          Timing: Prior to issuance of   Building Division,   __________   __________
centerline of the I-680 and with direct or side             any building permits.          Planning Division    date         date
orientation towards the freeway. Install windows and
glass doors rated minimum Sound Transmission Class
(STC) 28. A disclosure statement shall be provided to
all future property owners affected stating that
windows and glass doors must be maintain the STC
rating 28 or higher that were installed at the time of
construction to main acceptable DNL noise exposures
for single-family residents of 45 dB NDL.




                                                                                                                         EIA No. EA2007-6
Mitigation Measure Noise 4:
Maintain closed at all times all second floor windows       Responsibility: Applicant      Responsibility:      initials     initials
and glass doors of living spaces within 420 ft. of the      Timing: Prior to issuance of   Building Division,   __________   __________
centerline of I-680 and with a direct or side orientation   any building permits.          Planning Division    date         date
towards the freeway. At the living spaces within 340
ft. of the centerline, install windows and glass doors
rated minimum STC 33. A disclosure statement shall
be provided to all future property owners stating that
windows and glass doors must maintain the STC rating
33 or higher that were installed at the time of
construction to main acceptable DNL noise exposures
for single-family residents of 45 dB NDL.
Mitigation Measure Noise 5:
At living spaces between 340 ft. and 420 ft. of the         Responsibility: Applicant      Responsibility:      initials     initials
centerline, install windows and glass doors rated           Timing: Prior to issuance of   Building Division,   __________   __________
minimum STC 27. A disclosure statement shall be             any building permits.          Planning Division    date         date
provided for all future property owners affected stating
that windows and glass doors must maintain the STC
rating 27 or higher that were installed at the time of
construction to main acceptable DNL noise exposures
for single-family residents of 45 dB NDL.
Mitigation Measure Noise 6:
At the second floors of Lot 1 (east and north faces) and    Responsibility: Applicant      Responsibility:      initials     initials
of Lot 43 (east and south facades) install windows and      Timing: Prior to issuance of   Building Division,   __________   __________
glass doors rated minimum STC 38. A disclosure              any building permits.          Planning Division    date         date
statement shall be provided to all future property
owners affected stating that windows and glass doors
must maintain the STC rating 38 or higher that were
installed at the time of construction to main acceptable
DNL noise exposures for single-family residents of 45
dB NDL.
Mitigation Measure Noise 7:
Second floor windows for homes located on lots 6-17         Responsibility: Applicant      Responsibility:      initials     initials
shall install windows and glass doors rated minimum         Timing: Prior to issuance of   Building Division,   __________   __________
STC 28. A disclosure statement shall be provided to         any building permits.          Planning Division    date         date
all future property owners affected stating that
windows and glass doors must maintain the STC rating
28 or higher that were installed at the time of
construction to main acceptable DNL noise exposures
for single-family residents of 45 dB NDL.




                                                                                                                         EIA No. EA2007-6
Mitigation Measure Noise 8:                                 Responsibility: Applicant      Responsibility:      initials     initials
Provide mechanical ventilation for all residential living   Timing: Prior to issuance of   Building Division,   __________   __________
spaces that have closed window requirements.                any building permits.          Planning Division    date         date

Mitigation Measure Noise 9:
Prior to building permit issuance, applicant shall          Responsibility: Applicant      Responsibility:      initials     initials
submit acoustical test report of all sound rated windows    Timing: Prior to issuance of   Building Division,   __________   __________
and doors. The report shall be review by a qualified        any building permits.          Planning Division    date         date
acoustician to ensure that the chosen windows and
doors will adequately reduce traffic noise to acceptable
levels.
Mitigation Measure Noise 10:
Pursuant to the City of Milpitas Municipal Code, no         Responsibility: Applicant      Responsibility:      initials     initials
person shall engage or permit others to engage in           Timing: Prior to issuance of   Building Division,   __________   __________
construction of any building or related road or             any building permits.          Planning Division    date         date
walkway, pool or landscape improvement or in the
construction operations related thereto, including
delivery of construction materials, supplies, or
improvements on or to a construction site except within
the hours of 7:00 AM to 7:00 PM on weekdays and
weekends.

Mitigation Measure Noise 11:                                Responsibility: Applicant      Responsibility:      initials     initials
The contractor shall be required to use available noise     Timing: Prior to issuance of   Building Division,   __________   __________
suppression devices and properly maintain and muffle        any building permits.          Planning Division    date         date
internal combustion engine-driven construction
equipment.

Mitigation Measure Noise 12:                                Responsibility: Applicant      Responsibility:      initials     initials
The contractor shall be required to use noise barriers or   Timing: Prior to issuance of   Building Division,   __________   __________
noise control blankets to shield stationary equipment       any building permits.          Planning Division    date         date
from nearby noise-sensitive receptors.
Mitigation Measure Noise 13:
The contractor shall designate a disturbance                Responsibility: Applicant      Responsibility:      initials     initials
coordinator and post the name and phone number of           Timing: Prior to issuance of   Building Division,   __________   __________
this person at easy reference points for the surrounding    any building permits.          Planning Division    date         date
land uses. The disturbance coordinator would respond
to all complaints about noise and take the necessary




                                                                                                                         EIA No. EA2007-6
steps to reduce the problem.
Mitigation Measure Public Services 1:
The project applicant shall pay a park in-lie fee in the   Responsibility: Applicant      Responsibility:       initials     initials
amount of $1,556,695 prior to certificate of occupancy.    Timing: Prior to issuance of   Planning Division     __________   __________
                                                           any building permits.                                date         date

Mitigation Measure Transportation/Traffic 1:
To mitigate this cumulative impact, the project            Responsibility: Applicant      Responsibility:       initials     initials
applicant shall pay a traffic impact fee for their fair    Timing: Prior to issuance of   Planning Division,    __________   __________
share contribution towards the Calaveras Boulevard         any building permits.          Traffic Engineering   date         date
(SR 237) Overpass Widening Project, Montague                                              Section
Expressway Widening Project, and South Milpitas
Boulevard Smart Corridor Project.




                                                                                                                         EIA No. EA2007-6
              SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT
            ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EA2007-6)
                           INITIAL STUDY

        ENVIRONMENTAL CHECKLIST RESPONSES AND ANALYSIS

The following discussion includes explanations of answers to the previous checklist
questions regarding potential environmental impacts. Each subsection is annotated with
the number corresponding to the checklist form.

EXISTING SETTING:
The proposed project area is a 9.65-acre site consisting of five parcels (APN 86-29-061,
062, 075, 076, and 042) developed with four single-story, concrete tilt up industrial
buildings, 190 trees, various site improvements, and an abandon railroad spur located
along the western edge of the project site.

The subject property is located on the west side of Sinclair Frontage Road,
approximately 450 feet south of the intersection with Los Coches Street in Milpitas,
California. The project site is bounded by single-family residential homes to the north,
manufacturing and warehousing buildings to the west and south, Sinclair Frontage Road
and Interstate 680 to the east.      The surrounding zoning includes Single Family
Residential with minimum lot sizes at 3,000 square feet (R1-3) to the north and Heavy
Industrial to the west and south. Figure 1 shows the location of the project area in
context with nearby features, including freeways, major surface streets and other
buildings. Figure 2 shows the proposed residential development.

                   Figure 1: Project Site Aerial (Existing Condition)




                                          16
                         Figure 2: Proposed Site Development




PROJECT DESCRIPTION:
An application has been filed with the City of Milpitas for the following request:
   · General Plan Amendment to change the land use designation from
       "Manufacturing and Warehousing " to "Single Family Moderate Density,"
   · Zone Change from "Heavy Industrial" to "Single Family Residential minimum
       3,000 square foot" to ensure consistency between the modified General Plan land
       use designation and City zoning,
   · Vesting Major Tentative Map to create all "for sale" housing units,
   · Planned Unit Development to allow for diverse development standards for
       setbacks, and
   · S-Zone permit for site and architectural approval of a new residential
       subdivision.

The project proposal entails demolition of an existing low-rise industrial business park
that contains approximately 121,746 square feet of building floor space and existing site
improvements. The applicant proposes to redevelop the site with 80 detached, two-story,
single family residential homes, .42 acres of private open space that includes a .34 acre
private park and .18 acres of passive play area, and installation of associated site
improvements and landscaping.

Attachment to: Sinclair Renaissance Single Family Residential Development, General
Plan Land Use Amendment No. GM2006-2, Zone Change No. ZC2007-8, "S" Zone No.


                                           17
                                                                Traffic Data Service
                                                                           Campbell, CA
                                                                            (408) 377-2988
                                                                            tdsbay@cs.com                                            File Name    : 1AMFINAL
                                                                                                                                     Site Code    : 00000001
                                                                                                                                     Start Date   : 11/1/2006
                                                                                                                                     Page No      :1


                                                                      Groups Printed- Vehicles
                       MILPITAS BLVD                         LOS COCHES ST                   MILPITAS BLVD                           LOS COCHES ST
                         Southbound                             Westbound                      Northbound                               Eastbound
 Start Time    Right   Thru Left Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds     App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
     Factor     1.0     1.0 1.0 1.0                   1.0     1.0 1.0 1.0               1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0                       1.0     1.0 1.0 1.0
 07:00 AM         3     72    5     0      80         20        3  12     0      35       9   35    0     0        44           0       0    2    0         2         161
 07:15 AM       16     100   17     0     133         16        3  14     0      33       3   58    1     0        62           1       0    2    0         3         231
 07:30 AM       12     121   17     0     150         18        5  19     0      42       0   51    0     0        51           0       0    2    0         2         245
 07:45 AM       16     184   27     0     227         30      10   28     0      68       2   54    0     0        56           0       2    4    0         6         357
       Total    47     477   66     0     590         84      21   73     0   178        14 198     1     0       213           1       2   10    0        13         994

 08:00 AM        8     175    23   0      206         21       9     34      0    64     3    75     1     0       79           0      1    0     0         1       350
 08:15 AM        6     194    35   0      235         22       3     23      0    48     4    55     1     0       60           0      0    8     0         8       351
 08:30 AM       29     163    24   0      216         34       7     17      0    58     4    78     3     0       85           1      0    2     0         3       362
 08:45 AM       17     168    21   0      206         33       4     18      0    55     6    58     0     0       64           0      2    2     0         4       329
     Total      60     700   103   0      863        110      23     92      0   225    17   266     5     0      288           1      3   12     0        16      1392

 Grand Total   107 1177 169        0    1453         194      44    165      0   403    31 464       6     0      501           2    5  22        0        29      2386
 Apprch %       7.4  81 11.6       0                 48.1 10.9      40.9     0          6.2 92.6   1.2     0                  6.9 17.2 75.9       0
   Total %      4.5 49.3 7.1       0     60.9         8.1     1.8   6.9      0   16.9   1.3 19.4   0.3     0         21       0.1 0.2 0.9         0      1.2




                   MILPITAS BLVD                   LOS COCHES ST                             MILPITAS BLVD                           LOS COCHES ST
                      Southbound                      Westbound                                Northbound                               Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right            Thru Left Peds     App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
 07:45 AM     16 184        27     0    227     30   10  28     0     68       2              54     0     0       56           0    2    4       0         6       357
 08:00 AM       8 175       23     0    206     21    9  34     0     64       3              75     1     0       79           0    1    0       0         1       350
 08:15 AM       6 194       35     0    235     22    3  23     0     48       4              55     1     0       60           0    0    8       0         8       351
 08:30 AM     29 163        24     0    216     34    7  17     0     58       4              78     3     0       85           1    0    2       0         3       362
 Total Volume 59 716 109           0    884 107      29 102     0  238        13             262     5     0      280           1    3  14        0        18      1420
 % App. Total 6.7    81 12.3       0            45 12.2 42.9    0            4.6             93.6  1.8     0                  5.6 16.7 77.8       0
        PHF .509 .923 .779 .000 .940 .787 .725 .750 .000 .875 .813                           .840 .417   .000    .824 .250 .375 .438 .000              .563          .981
                                                                Traffic Data Service
                                                                           Campbell, CA
                                                                            (408) 377-2988
                                                                            tdsbay@cs.com                                             File Name    : 1PMFINAL
                                                                                                                                      Site Code    : 00000001
                                                                                                                                      Start Date   : 11/1/2006
                                                                                                                                      Page No      :1


                                                                      Groups Printed- Vehicles
                       MILPITAS BLVD                         LOS COCHES ST                   MILPITAS BLVD                            LOS COCHES ST
                         Southbound                             Westbound                      Northbound                                Eastbound
 Start Time    Right   Thru Left Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds      App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
     Factor     1.0     1.0 1.0 1.0                   1.0     1.0 1.0 1.0               1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0                        1.0     1.0 1.0 1.0
 04:00 PM       11     125   42     0     178         24        0    7    0      31      18 127     0     0        145           0       2    4    0         6       360
 04:15 PM         7    115   25     0     147         33        4  12     0      49      19 120     1     0        140           0       4    7    0        11       347
 04:30 PM         4    144   32     0     180         60        1  16     0      77      20 185     0     0        205           0       5    8    0        13       475
 04:45 PM         5    145   31     0     181         32        4  14     0      50      23 151     0     0        174           2     10    10    0        22       427
       Total    27     529 130      0     686        149        9  49     0   207        80 583     1     0        664           2     21    29    0        52      1609

 05:00 PM        0     153    34   0      187         43       0     22      0    65     18   200     0     0      218           1     11   20     0      32         502
 05:15 PM        3     161    37   0      201         55       0     17      0    72     11   230     1     0      242           4     10   20     0      34         549
 05:30 PM        5     190    43   0      238         39       1     13      0    53     19   165     1     0      185           1      4   15     0      20         496
 05:45 PM        4     182    70   0      256         39       0     23      0    62     24   204     1     0      229           2     11   33     0      46         593
     Total      12     686   184   0      882        176       1     75      0   252     72   799     3     0      874           8     36   88     0     132        2140

 Grand Total    39 1215      314   0    1568         325      10    124      0   459    152 1382      4     0    1538          10      57 117      0     184        3749
 Apprch %       2.5 77.5      20   0                 70.8     2.2    27      0           9.9 89.9   0.3     0                  5.4     31 63.6     0
   Total %        1 32.4     8.4   0     41.8         8.7     0.3    3.3     0   12.2    4.1 36.9   0.1     0         41       0.3     1.5 3.1     0      4.9




                   MILPITAS BLVD                   LOS COCHES ST                              MILPITAS BLVD                           LOS COCHES ST
                      Southbound                     Westbound                                  Northbound                               Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right             Thru Left Peds     App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
 05:00 PM       0 153       34     0    187     43   0   22    0      65      18              200     0     0      218           1  11   20        0      32         502
 05:15 PM       3 161       37     0    201     55   0   17    0      72      11              230     1     0      242           4  10   20        0      34         549
 05:30 PM       5 190       43     0    238     39   1   13    0      53      19              165     1     0      185           1    4  15        0      20         496
 05:45 PM       4 182       70     0    256     39   0   23    0      62      24              204     1     0      229           2  11   33        0      46         593
 Total Volume 12 686 184           0    882 176      1   75    0   252        72              799     3     0      874           8  36   88        0     132        2140
 % App. Total 1.4 77.8 20.9        0          69.8 0.4 29.8    0             8.2              91.4  0.3     0                  6.1 27.3 66.7       0
        PHF .600 .903 .657 .000 .861 .800 .250 .815 .000 .875 .750                            .868 .750   .000    .903 .500 .818 .667 .000              .717          .902
                                                                Traffic Data Service
                                                                          Campbell, CA
                                                                           (408) 377-2988
                                                                           tdsbay@cs.com                                           File Name    : 2AMFINAL
                                                                                                                                   Site Code    : 00000002
                                                                                                                                   Start Date   : 11/1/2006
                                                                                                                                   Page No      :1


                                                                      Groups Printed- Vehicles
                        HILLVIEW DR                          LOS COCHES ST                    HILLVIEW DR                          LOS COCHES ST
                         Southbound                             Westbound                      Northbound                             Eastbound
 Start Time    Right   Thru Left Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
     Factor     1.0     1.0 1.0 1.0                   1.0     1.0 1.0 1.0               1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0                     1.0     1.0 1.0 1.0
 07:00 AM       22      12    9     0      43           7     12     0    0      19       2     7   4     0        13         2       4    2    0         8          83
 07:15 AM       32      15   11     0      58         10      16     0    0      26       0     6   0     0         6         3       3    1    0         7          97
 07:30 AM       23      26   14     0      63         17      25     0    0      42       0     5   1     0         6         7       6    4    0        17         128
 07:45 AM       46      31   18     0      95           8     32     0    0      40       0     8   1     0         9         4       8    2    0        14         158
       Total   123      84   52     0     259         42      85     0    0   127         2   26    6     0        34       16      21     9    0        46         466

 08:00 AM       36      44   17    0       97          9      16     0      0    25     0     4    1     0          5        6      12     9    0        27         154
 08:15 AM       22      27   15    0       64         20      24     1      0    45     0     0    0     0          0        6      12     2    0        20         129
 08:30 AM       26      48   16    0       90         22      28     0      0    50     1     4    7     0         12        5      14     3    0        22         174
 08:45 AM       29      39   35    0      103         12      22     0      0    34     1     5    2     0          8        3       5     8    0        16         161
     Total     113     158   83    0      354         63      90     1      0   154     2    13   10     0         25       20      43    22    0        85         618

 Grand Total 236 242 135           0      613        105     175      1     0   281      4  39   16      0         59       36      64    31    0     131        1084
 Apprch % 38.5 39.5   22           0          37.4 62.3             0.4     0          6.8 66.1 27.1     0                 27.5    48.9 23.7    0
   Total % 21.8 22.3 12.5          0     56.5 9.7 16.1              0.1     0   25.9   0.4 3.6 1.5       0       5.4        3.3     5.9   2.9   0    12.1




                     HILLVIEW DR                   LOS COCHES ST                   HILLVIEW DR                                     LOS COCHES ST
                      Southbound                      Westbound                     Northbound                                        Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds              App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
 08:00 AM      36    44     17     0      97     9   16    0    0     25       0     4   1     0                    5        6      12     9    0        27         154
 08:15 AM      22    27     15     0      64    20   24    1    0     45       0     0   0     0                    0        6      12     2    0        20         129
 08:30 AM      26    48     16     0      90    22   28    0    0     50       1     4   7     0                   12        5      14     3    0        22         174
 08:45 AM      29    39     35     0    103     12   22    0    0     34       1     5   2     0                    8        3       5     8    0        16         161
 Total Volume 113 158       83     0    354     63   90    1    0  154         2   13   10     0                   25       20      43    22    0        85         618
 % App. Total 31.9 44.6 23.4       0          40.9 58.4  0.6    0              8   52   40     0                           23.5    50.6 25.9    0
        PHF .785 .823 .593 .000 .859 .716 .804 .250 .000 .770 .500 .650 .357 .000                              .521 .833 .768 .611 .000              .787          .888
                                                                Traffic Data Service
                                                                          Campbell, CA
                                                                           (408) 377-2988
                                                                           tdsbay@cs.com                                           File Name        : 2PMFINAL
                                                                                                                                   Site Code        : 00000002
                                                                                                                                   Start Date       : 11/1/2006
                                                                                                                                   Page No          :1


                                                                      Groups Printed- Vehicles
                        HILLVIEW DR                          LOS COCHES ST                    HILLVIEW DR                          LOS COCHES ST
                         Southbound                             Westbound                      Northbound                              Eastbound
 Start Time    Right   Thru Left Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total       Int. Total
     Factor     1.0     1.0 1.0 1.0                   1.0     1.0 1.0 1.0               1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0                     1.0      1.0 1.0 1.0
 04:00 PM       11        7  22     0      40         39      26     2    0      67       1   37    9     0      47           3      31    34    0     68             222
 04:15 PM       17      10   29     0      56         28      19     1    0      48       1   24    3     0      28           4      25    27    0     56             188
 04:30 PM       16        9  28     0      53         42      32     0    0      74       0   28   12     0      40           5      26    34    0     65             232
 04:45 PM       22        9  27     0      58         32      28     0    0      60       1   23    2     0      26           1      28    33    0     62             206
       Total    66      35 106      0     207        141     105     3    0   249         3 112    26     0     141         13      110 128      0  251               848

 05:00 PM       23       8    34   0       65         53      32     3      0    88     2    39    8     0       49          0      26    48      0      74           276
 05:15 PM       17      14    31   0       62         35      33     0      0    68     2    25    7     0       34          4      23    34      0      61           225
 05:30 PM       21      11    29   0       61         40      25     2      0    67     2    27    3     0       32          5      22    39      0      66           226
 05:45 PM       23      16    30   0       69         23      21     0      0    44     1    33    7     0       41         11      38    50      0      99           253
     Total      84      49   124   0      257        151     111     5      0   267     7   124   25     0      156         20     109   171      0     300           980

 Grand Total 150 84 230            0      464        292     216      8     0   516    10 236    51      0      297         33 219 299            0     551        1828
 Apprch % 32.3 18.1 49.6           0          56.6 41.9             1.6     0          3.4 79.5 17.2     0                    6 39.7 54.3         0
   Total % 8.2 4.6 12.6            0     25.4  16 11.8              0.4     0   28.2   0.5 12.9 2.8      0     16.2         1.8  12 16.4          0    30.1




                     HILLVIEW DR                   LOS COCHES ST                   HILLVIEW DR                                     LOS COCHES ST
                      Southbound                      Westbound                     Northbound                                        Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds              App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds     App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
 05:00 PM      23      8    34     0      65    53   32    3    0     88       2   39    8     0                 49           0  26       48      0      74           276
 05:15 PM      17    14     31     0      62    35   33    0    0     68       2   25    7     0                 34           4  23       34      0      61           225
 05:30 PM      21    11     29     0      61    40   25    2    0     67       2   27    3     0                 32           5  22       39      0      66           226
 05:45 PM      23    16     30     0      69    23   21    0    0     44       1   33    7     0                 41         11   38       50      0      99           253
 Total Volume  84    49 124        0    257 151 111        5    0  267         7 124    25     0                156         20 109       171      0     300           980
 % App. Total 32.7 19.1 48.2       0          56.6 41.6  1.9    0            4.5 79.5   16     0                            6.7 36.3      57      0
        PHF .913 .766 .912 .000 .931 .712 .841 .417 .000 .759 .875 .795 .781 .000                              .796 .455 .717 .855 .000                .758          .888
                                                                Traffic Data Service
                                                                         Campbell, CA
                                                                          (408) 377-2988
                                                                          tdsbay@cs.com                                                   File Name    : 3AMFINAL
                                                                                                                                          Site Code    : 00000003
                                                                                                                                          Start Date   : 11/1/2006
                                                                                                                                          Page No      :1


                                                                      Groups Printed- Vehicles
                        SINCLAIRE RD                          YOSEMITE DR                     SINCLAIRE RD                                 YOSEMITE DR
                          Southbound                            Westbound                       Northbound                                   Eastbound
 Start Time    Right   Thru Left Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds          App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
     Factor     1.0     1.0 1.0 1.0                   1.0     1.0 1.0 1.0               1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0                            1.0     1.0 1.0 1.0
 07:00 AM       19        3    3    0       25          8     65     5    0      78       2     8    0    0               10         1     17     2    0      20           133
 07:15 AM       21        2    2    0       25          6     82     6    0      94       0     1    0    0                1         1     15     3    0      19           139
 07:30 AM       14        6    0    0       20        11     156     5    0   172         0     3    1    0                4         2     29     0    0      31           227
 07:45 AM       18        0    1    0       19        10     123     3    0   136         1     8    0    0                9         4     26     4    0      34           198
       Total    72       11    6    0       89        35     426   19     0   480         3    20    1    0               24         8     87     9    0     104           697

 08:00 AM       16       8    1    0       25         19     143     6     0     168           0      1    2    0          3       11      32    2     0      45           241
 08:15 AM       18       8    5    0       31         21     131     8     0     160           2      0    0    0          2       12      41    3     0      56           249
 08:30 AM       26      12    4    0       42         23     142     1     0     166           4      2    0    0          6        8      19    5     0      32           246
 08:45 AM       25       7    0    0       32         24     133     3     0     160           0      1    0    0          1        3      32    1     0      36           229
     Total      85      35   10    0      130         87     549    18     0     654           6      4    2    0         12       34     124   11     0     169           965

 Grand Total 157       46    16    0      219        122     975   37      0   1134            9 24         3   0         36       42     211   20     0     273        1662
 Apprch % 71.7         21    7.3   0                 10.8     86   3.3     0                 25 66.7      8.3   0                 15.4 77.3     7.3    0
   Total % 9.4         2.8     1   0     13.2         7.3 58.7     2.2     0    68.2         0.5 1.4      0.2   0       2.2        2.5 12.7     1.2    0    16.4




                    SINCLAIRE RD                     YOSEMITE DR                                     SINCLAIRE RD                          YOSEMITE DR
                      Southbound                       Westbound                                      Northbound                             Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds               App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:00 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
 07:15 AM      21      2     2     0      25      6  82     6    0                94           0    1    0      0          1        1  15        3     0      19           139
 07:30 AM      14      6     0     0      20    11 156      5    0               172           0    3    1      0          4        2  29        0     0      31           227
 07:45 AM      18      0     1     0      19    10 123      3    0               136           1    8    0      0          9        4  26        4     0      34           198
 08:00 AM      16      8     1     0      25    19 143      6    0               168           0    1    2      0          3       11  32        2     0      45           241
 Total Volume  69    16      4     0      89    46 504    20     0               570           1  13     3      0         17       18 102        9     0     129           805
 % App. Total 77.5   18 4.5        0            8.1 88.4 3.5     0                           5.9 76.5 17.6      0                  14 79.1       7     0
        PHF .821 .500 .500 .000 .890 .605 .808 .833 .000                        .828 .250 .406 .375 .000              .472 .409 .797 .563 .000              .717          .835
                                                                Traffic Data Service
                                                                         Campbell, CA
                                                                          (408) 377-2988
                                                                          tdsbay@cs.com                                                   File Name    : 3PMFINAL
                                                                                                                                          Site Code    : 00000003
                                                                                                                                          Start Date   : 11/1/2006
                                                                                                                                          Page No      :1


                                                                      Groups Printed- Vehicles
                        SINCLAIRE RD                          YOSEMITE DR                     SINCLAIRE RD                                 YOSEMITE DR
                          Southbound                            Westbound                       Northbound                                   Eastbound
 Start Time    Right   Thru Left Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds          App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
     Factor     1.0     1.0 1.0 1.0                   1.0     1.0 1.0 1.0               1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0                            1.0     1.0 1.0 1.0
 04:00 PM         1       1   21    0      23         17      37     2    0      56      12     7    4    0               23         4     82     0    0      86           188
 04:15 PM         1       5   42    0      48         12      27     1    0      40      16     8    2    0               26         1     79     1    0      81           195
 04:30 PM         1       1   66    0      68           5     25     0    0      30      11     3    3    0               17         0    104     2    0     106           221
 04:45 PM         3       4   43    0      50         11      42     1    0      54      11     8    1    0               20         2     79     4    0      85           209
       Total      6      11 172     0     189         45     131     4    0   180        50    26   10    0               86         7    344     7    0     358           813

 05:00 PM        6       7    84   0       97          2      41     2     0      45          24     15     3    0        42         3    131    3     0     137         321
 05:15 PM        7       1    58   0       66          5      51     4     0      60           9      2     0    0        11         1    134    1     0     136         273
 05:30 PM        3       0    71   0       74          1      54     1     0      56           9      3     4    0        16         1    137    0     0     138         284
 05:45 PM        2       2    48   0       52          3      58     4     0      65           5      4     0    0         9         2    139    0     0     141         267
     Total      18      10   261   0      289         11     204    11     0     226          47     24     7    0        78         7    541    4     0     552        1145

 Grand Total    24     21 433      0      478         56     335   15      0     406          97     50    17    0     164         14 885       11     0     910        1958
 Apprch %         5    4.4 90.6    0          13.8 82.5            3.7     0                59.1    30.5 10.4    0                 1.5 97.3     1.2    0
   Total %      1.2    1.1 22.1    0     24.4 2.9 17.1             0.8     0    20.7           5     2.6   0.9   0      8.4        0.7 45.2     0.6    0    46.5




                    SINCLAIRE RD                     YOSEMITE DR                                     SINCLAIRE RD                          YOSEMITE DR
                      Southbound                       Westbound                                      Northbound                             Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds               App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds   App. Total   Right   Thru Left Peds   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:00 PM
 05:00 PM       6      7    84     0      97      2  41     2    0                45         24      15     3    0        42         3    131     3    0     137         321
 05:15 PM       7      1    58     0      66      5  51     4    0                60          9       2     0    0        11         1    134     1    0     136         273
 05:30 PM       3      0    71     0      74      1  54     1    0                56          9       3     4    0        16         1    137     0    0     138         284
 05:45 PM       2      2    48     0      52      3  58     4    0                65          5       4     0    0         9         2    139     0    0     141         267
 Total Volume 18     10 261        0    289     11 204    11     0               226         47      24     7    0        78         7    541     4    0     552        1145
 % App. Total 6.2 3.5 90.3         0            4.9 90.3 4.9     0                          60.3    30.8    9    0                 1.3     98   0.7    0
        PHF .643 .357 .777 .000 .745 .550 .879 .688 .000                        .869 .490 .400 .438 .000              .464 .583 .973 .333 .000              .979          .892
