                                                              AGENDA ITEM: 1




                      MILPITAS PLANNING COMMISSION
                             AGENDA REPORT
 PUBLIC HEARING                     Meeting Date: March 11, 2009


APPLICATION:          SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT NO. SD08-0006, CONDITIONAL
                      USE PERMIT NO. UP08-0028, and ENVIRONMENTAL
                      ASSESSMENT NO. EA09-0003, LANDESS RETAIL CENTER
                      PROJECT

APPLICATION
SUMMARY:              A request to redevelop an existing 93,704 square foot commercial
                      building. The project proposal entails site and building modifications
                      that includes a 26,669 square two-story addition, exterior upgrade of the
                      building façade, a conceptual design for a future 30-foot pylon sign, and
                      installation of associated site improvements that will allow for retail,
                      office and future restaurant uses. The project also requires a Conditional
                      Use Permit for the proposed 32,975 square foot food market.

LOCATION:             1535 Landess Avenue (APN 88-35-017)
APPLICANT:            Dinna Bayangos, Ayafafil Management LLC, 255 Shoreline Drive, Suite
                      428, Mountain View, CA 954065
OWNER:                Same as above.

RECOMMENDATION:       Staff recommends that the Planning Commission:
                      1. Close the public hearing; and
                      2. Adopt Resolution No. 09-014 approving the project subject to
                         conditions of approval.
                      3. Provide preliminary comments on the conceptual design of the
                         30-foot tall pylon sign.

PROJECT DATA:
General Plan/
Zoning Designation:   General Commercial (GNC)/General Commercial

Overlay District:     Site and Architectural Overlay (C2-S)

Specific Plan:        N/A

Site Area:            7.89 Acres

CEQA Determination:   A Negative Declaration and Initial Study was prepared and circulated for
                      this project.
SD08-0006, UP08-0028, and EA09-0003                                     Page 2
Landess Retail Center Project


PLANNER:                Cindy Hom, Assistant Planner

PJ:                     2545

ATTACHMENTS:            A. Resolution No. 09-010/Conditions of Approval
                        B. Project Plans
                        C. Alternative West Elevation
                        D. Traffic Impact Analysis Report
                        E. Solid Waste and Recycling Handling Plan
                        F. Stormwater Control Plan
                        G. Environmental Assessment No. EA09-0003 (Initial Study and
                        Negative Declaration)
                        H. Comment letters from the public
SD08-0006, UP08-0028, and EA09-0003          Page 3
Landess Retail Center Project


                              LOCATION MAP




                     Project Site




                                             No scale
SD08-0006, UP08-0028, and EA09-0003                                                  Page 4
Landess Retail Center Project


BACKGROUND
In June 1986, the Planning Commission approved a Site Development Permit and Conditional Use
Permit Nos. 798 and 799 that allowed for the construction and operations of 80,704 square foot Home
Depot store with attached open air garden center as well as installation of two driveway monument
signs. In January 2002, the site was converted to a Home Depot Pro store and was approved for
equipment enclosure, minor building modifications, and replacements of signage. Since 2007, the site
has been vacant.

On July 23, 2008, Dinna Bayangos of Ayalafil Management LLC submitted an application for
entitlements to redevelop the building to allow for approximately 107,373 square foot of mixed
commercial. Identified uses within the space include 32,975 square feet for a food market, 17,327
square feet for general retail, 10,715 square feet for office, and approximately 24,260 square feet for
future restaurants that would all required separate use permits. The application is submitted pursuant to
the Milpitas Municipal Codes listed below:
       XI-10-19.03-17 (Food Stores, such as supermarkets, convenience stores that are located within
       1,000 feet of residential development or uses)
       XI-10-57.06 (C) (e) (Additions of 10,000 square or greater)

PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The project site is situated on a 7.89-acre parcel that is developed with a vacant 80,704 square foot
single story commercial building and 13,000 outdoor garden center that was previous occupied by
Home Depot and later Home Depot Pro. The project site is located at the northeast corner of the
Dempsey Road and Landess Avenue intersection. The site is zoned General Commercial with a Site
and Architectural Overlay (C2-S). Neighboring land uses include the Stonegate Development PUD (89
single-family homes) and the French Court PUD (20 single-family homes) both located north of the
project site. The building is located approximately 70 feet from the rear property lines of the Stonegate
residences, and the existing garden center is located approximately 100 feet from the rear of the French
Court residences. A six-foot high masonry wall separates the adjacent residences from the subject site.
Commercial retail buildings are located to the west, south and east. A vicinity map of the project site is
shown on the previous page.

The project proposes to utilize the existing site layout and convert the existing building into a retail
center. The project would entail renovation of the exterior façade, interior improvements that will
facilitate commercial development and installation of various site improvements that include
landscaping enhancements along the perimeter of the building, rehabilitation of existing landscaping,
modifications to the Dempsey driveway, and off-site public improvements.
SD08-0006, UP08-0028, and EA09-0003                                                Page 5
Landess Retail Center Project


Development Standards

                                              Table 1
                                     C2 Development Standards

                                            Zoning Ordinance                    Proposed
    Setbacks (Minimum)
      Front to Primary Structure                   None                            290'
      Interior/Street Side                        15' min                      75' and 140'
       Rear                                      15' min.                           75'
    Lot Area (Maximum)                          10,000 s.f.                    343,991 s.f.
    Floor Area Ratio (Maximum)                     50%                             31%
    Building Height (Maximum)                      None                             45'
    Parking (Minimum) discussed
                                                    513                             513
    further Parking Section below.

Access, Circulation, and Parking
Access to the project site is provided by two 36-foot wide two-way driveways on Landess Avenue that
provide right turn-in and right turn-out access and a third driveway on Dempsey road that currently
provides a two-way driveway that consists of one right turn-in and one left/right turn-out. To improve
queuing and vehicle storage capacity at the Dempsey driveway, staff is recommending as a condition
driveway modifications that would allow a right turn in and one left turn out and one right turn out
lanes. The off-site improvement will include reconfiguration of the median island on Dempsey.

Circulation of the project site consists of internal 20-foot and 25-foot drive aisles that are integrated
with parking rows and pedestrian pathways including a new pedestrian crosswalk that extends from the
public sidewalk on Landess Avenue to the front entrance of the mall. Staff is also recommending a
condition of approval that an additional pedestrian pathway provide a connection from the sidewalk on
Dempsey to the building. The site circulation complies with Milpitas Zoning development standards
and provides adequate site circulation and connectivity.

The parking lot area consists of 90-degree parking spaces. As proposed, the site currently provides 513
on-site parking spaces. Of the 513 parking spaces, 337 are standard parking spaces and the remaining
160 parking spaces are compact stalls. The original site development was approved with 111 compact
spaces. The use of additional 49 compact spaces would be contingent upon the effective date of an
effort by the City to adopt an amendment to the Parking Ordinance. The draft Ordinance allows up to
40% compact parking in the General Commercial Zoning District. Staff supports the compact parking
proposal because it will allow for installation of new pedestrian walkways from Landess Avenue and
Dempsey Road. The proposed site plan shows the compact parking in centralized areas at the front and
rear of the building. Staff recommends as a condition of approval, that prior to building permit
issuance the applicant shall submit a revised parking plan to the approval of the Planning Division that
evenly distribute compact spaces throughout the parking area to provide opportunity of all types of cars
SD08-0006, UP08-0028, and EA09-0003                                                 Page 6
Landess Retail Center Project


to park without larger vehicles occupying more than one space. If the Ordinance amendments are not
adopted by the City Council, the applicant would be obligated to ensure that the number of parking
provided for the project matches the amount of parking required by the Parking Ordinance in effect.
This may affect the overall size of the project. The project complies with the Milpitas Parking
Ordinance requirement and is summarized in the Table 2:

                                               Table 2
                                          Parking Summary

Proposed Uses         Parking Ratio                                    Proposed Parking Provided
Retail                1/200 GFA                                        17,327       87
            nd
Offices (2 Floor) 1/400 GFA                                            10,715       27
Food Store            1/200 GFA                                        32,975       165
Future Restaurants TBD*                                                24,260       TBD*
Total Number of Spaces required for Commercial Retail                               279
Total Number of Space available for Future Restaurant Uses                          234
Total Number of Spaces Required                                                     513
Total Number of Spaces Provided                                                     513
* Restaurant shall be required to obtain their individual conditional use permits and parking
requirements for each restaurant will be determined based on the Milpitas Parking Ordinance in
affect at that time.

Traffic Impact Analysis Report
A Traffic Impact Analysis report was prepared by Hexagon Traffic Consultants to evaluate potential
impacts resulting from the proposed project, taking into account the trips associated with the previous
use. The impacts of the project were evaluated in accordance with the standards and methodologies set
forth by the City of Milpitas, City of San Jose, and Congestion Management Plan (CMP) of the Santa
Clara County. For reference, the report in its entirety is included as Attachment D of this report.

In summary, the proposed project would generate 5,325 net daily trips, 234 new primary AM peak hour
trips, 410 new primary midday peak hour trips, and 411 new primary PM peak hour trips. The project
would also generate 127 midday peak hour pass-by trips and 117 PM peak hour pass-by trips.

Level of service
Based on the Traffic Impact Analysis, the added vehicle trips would not result in a substantial adverse
impact on the Level of Service (LOS) at the studied intersections. Based on the report, all of the study
intersections would continue to operate at an acceptable LOS. Results of the LOS analysis are
summarized in Table 10 of the report.

The project would not cause a significant increase in traffic volumes on any of the study freeway
segments. Results of the CMP freeway LOS are summarized in Table 12 of the report. Furthermore, a
Freeway Ramp Capacity Analysis concluded that each of the study ramps had sufficient capacity to
serve the existing traffic volumes and would continue to have sufficient capacity under the near and far
term conditions with or without the project. Result of the Freeway Ramp Capacity Analysis is
summarized in Table 11 of the report.
SD08-0006, UP08-0028, and EA09-0003                                                 Page 7
Landess Retail Center Project


Although the project would add an incremental demand for transit facilities, the project demand would
not exceed the current capacity provided by existing transit facilities.

Operational analysis
The Traffic Impact Analysis also did a supplemental analysis for unsignalized intersections and left
turn operations for selected intersections. An assessment of the Park Victoria Drive and Mount Shasta
was conducted to determine whether the peak hour traffic volumes warranted a signalized intersection.
The assessment concluded that no further improvements are recommended because the intersection
would operate at LOS C and the existing, background, project and future growth conditions did not
exceed the peak hour signal warrant check threshold.

In terms of the left turn operations, the supplemental assessment found deficiencies at the Great Mall
Parkway/Capitol Avenue and Montague Expressway Intersection and the Dempsey Road and Landess
Avenue Intersection. The project would add one additional vehicle per lane to the queue for the Great
Mall/Capitol and Montague Intersection. However, the impact for the Great Mall/Capitol Avenue and
Montague Intersection is less than significant. As a condition of approval, the applicant shall be
required to pay a fair share contribution to the Montague Traffic Impact Fee.

At the Dempsey and Landess Intersection, the project would add three additional vehicles to the queue
per cycle during the PM peak hour. Currently, vehicles making a southbound left turn on Dempsey
Road at Landess Avenue exceed the existing storage capacity by spilling out of the left-turn pocket and
blocking the southbound right turn movements. In addition, during project conditions, vehicles
attempting to exit from the project driveway towards Montague Expressway may find the driveway
blocked due to the southbound left turn queue from the Dempsey Road and Landess Avenue
intersection. To improve the operations at the project driveway and Dempsey and Landess Intersection,
the project is conditioned to construct driveway modifications and improvements to the existing median
island on Dempsey Road between Landess Avenue and the project driveway. The improvements
would entail a right turn in and a right and left turn out at the project driveway. As conditioned, the
project would remove the taper in the island on Dempsey to extend the existing southbound left turn
lane by 55-feet and provide additional vehicle storage capacity. In addition, to prevent blockage of the
project driveway, "KEEP CLEAR and DO NO BLOCK INTERSECTION" signage should be installed
in front of the project driveway to prevent blockage of queues from the Dempsey Road & Landess
Avenue intersection. The impact at the Dempsey and Landess Intersection would also less than
significant impact.

Floor Plan
The project proposes an interior mall concept with a 32,975 square foot food market as the major
anchor of the retail center. The proposed retail center will also include a 3,100 square foot food court,
approximately 21,162 square feet of restaurant space, and 17,327 square feet of retail space. The
project also proposes a second story addition that will provide approximately 10,715 square feet of
office space. The second story addition could be potential constructed at a later date depending on the
market conditions. In the event that the second story is not built out, an alternative west elevation
would be constructed and shown in Attachment C. Other ancillary space includes common areas,
mechanical rooms, elevator lobbies, and service rooms.
SD08-0006, UP08-0028, and EA09-0003                                                  Page 8
Landess Retail Center Project


Building Architecture
The existing building façade will be enhanced with a contemporary modern architecture that focuses on
simple lines, varied roof lines, color blocking, and texturing. The building proposes stucco walls,
decorative score lines, smoked glass, and slate tiling. The applicant has worked with staff to ensure the
building's architecture is detailed through the use of cornices, reveals, merchandise display windows,
metal awnings, plant trellises and wainscoting. The overall character and scale of the building will be
compatible with the surrounding structures. Four new tower elements are proposed to be integrated into
the building's design to accent the main entrances to the building. The new architectural elements will
provide building articulation in what would otherwise be flat exterior walls. The building will be
painted in four complimentary earth-tone colors including beige, tan, green and rust.

Landscaping
The project site is currently landscaped with existing trees that include London Plane trees, Flowering
Crabapple trees, Italian Poplar trees, Raywood Ash trees, and Coast Live Oak trees. These trees range
in age, health, and size. All existing on-site trees are to remain for the exception of the removal and
replacement of six London Plan trees with 24-inch box Pink Dawn Chitalpa trees to accommodate a
new pedestrian connection. The project proposes additional landscape enhancements that include
seventeen 24-inch box Pink Dawn Chitaplpa trees and four 24-inch Flowering Crabapple trees around
the perimeter of the building, rehabilitation of existing landscape islands with new groundcover and
shrubbery, and reshaping of the existing landscaping berms to provide a gentle transition to a replanted
flat area on the left and right side of the Landess driveway entrance. Staff recommends as a condition
of approval that prior to building permit issuance a detailed landscape and irrigation plan shall be
submitted to ensure compliance with the City's Water Efficiency, use of structure soil for revised and
new planting area, and screening of mechanical equipment. All landscaping shall be installed prior to
the building permit final. Lastly, all landscaping and irrigation shall be maintained in perpetuity.

Stormwater Control Plan
The existing site is approximately 92% impervious and does not have any on-site stormwater treatment.
Although, the project proposes to utilize the existing building footprint and parking lot area, the project
is required to treat the expanded roof area and hardscape areas the are re-graded to accommodate the
proposed ADA parking spaces and pathways. The project proposes a Filterra treatment filter unit to
treat approximately 20,900 square feet of the expanded roof area. This would ensure that stormwater
runoff from the project site would not exceed the capacity of the existing storm drainage system, or
contribute significantly to downstream flooding.

Solid Waste
The project proposal will consist of two solid waste service areas. The proposed retail center plans to
utilize the existing compactor area located at the northwest corner of the building and construct a new
CMU trash enclosure on the eastern boundary of the project site. The applicant has submitted a Solid
Waste and Recycling Handling Plan that outlines trash and recycling collection procedures. A copy of
the report is included as Attachment E to this staff report. Staff recommends the following conditions
to ensure adequate servicing and maintenance:
      Trash and recycling service area shall be development in accordance with the Milpitas Trash
         Enclosure Design Standards.
      Trash and Recycling service areas shall include a roof cover element such as but not limited to
         roof canopy, decorative trellis, or other design for Planning Division review and approval.
SD08-0006, UP08-0028, and EA09-0003                                                    Page 9
Landess Retail Center Project


       If at any time there is a problem with bins outside of their enclosures and obstruct vehicle
       parking or on-site circulation, roll-out service through the local refuse collection company shall
       be required.
       To ensure that the level of solid waste collection service is adequate, an evaluation of refuse
       service be done after the businesses have opened by the refuse company and the city Solid
       Waste Division.

Loading Area
The project proposes to utilize the existing loading docks for the proposed food market tenant and abuts
a residential property line. The existing dock area would be partially screened by the proposed building
addition. However, there is no screening on the north side of the loading dock area. To ensure that
noise levels are minimal, staff recommends replacing the dock railing on the north side with wall
screen to dampen noise from loading and trash service activities.

Signage
Pylon Sign
The project proposes a conceptual plan for a 30-foot tall double faced, internally illuminated pylon sign
at the Landess Avenue Driveway. The conceptual pylon sign consists of a modern design to continue
the style of the retail center and is designed with a tapered base, tile veneer accents, reveals, and plaster
texture to match the building. The pylon sign will provide shopping center identification sign and
tenant signage. Given the location, the sign height and scale is appropriate given the location is near a
gateway to the city and provides a regional landmark with its proximity to Interstate-680. This
conceptual plan has been submitted for preliminary comments and will be submitted with a use permit
application as part of the center's sign program..

Sign Program
The Milpitas Sign Ordinance requires multi-tenant buildings to have a sign program to ensure design
consistency and compliance with the total allowable sign area. Based on the conceptual architectural
elevations, proposed signage would appear to consist of individual letter wall signs, blade signs, and
metal awning signs. As a condition of approval, the applicant shall obtain Planning Commission
approval for a sign program that provides detail sign plans, a use permit for the 30-foot high pylon sign
and elevations and shall include design standards, construction requirements, and allocation of sign
area prior to the installation of any sign.

Conditional Use Permit
Food Market
The project proposes a 32,975 square food market that will be staffed between the hours of 6:00AM to
midnight; however, store hours would be open to the public would be from 8:00AM to 9:00PM. The
delivery hours of the supermarket is proposed between 8:00AM to 5:00PM. The proposed food market
operator is Seafood City, which a food market that specializes in Asian food items. The proposed
market intends to retail common groceries, convenience items, on-site sales of beer and wine, and will
also include a deli take-out section.


ADOPTED PLANS AND ORDINANCES CONSISTENCY

General Plan
SD08-0006, UP08-0028, and EA09-0003                                                  Page 10
Landess Retail Center Project


The table below outlines the project's consistency with applicable General Plan Guiding Principles and
Implementing Policies:

                                               Table 3
                                       General Plan Consistency

Policy                                   Consistency Finding
Implementing Policy 2.a-I-3              Consistent. The proposed retail center will help revitalize
   Encourages economic pursuits          a vacant commercial site by providing retail opportunities
   which will strengthen and             and new jobs. The project site has convenient freeway
   promote development through           access and will be compatible with the purpose and intent
   stability and balance.                of the General Commercial Zoning District.


Implementing Policy 2.a-I-5              Consistent. The project is a re-use of an existing
   Maintains policies that promote a     commercial building. The project site is already served by
   strong economy within existing        city services and existing infrastructure.
   environmental, social, fiscal and
   land use restraints and policy.       The project would not have a substantial adverse economic
                                         effect on nearby uses because it would not reduce business
                                         activities or commercial uses in the area.

                                         Furthermore, the project would enable Milpitas to
                                         maintain a distinctive character to its retail base in order to
                                         effectively compete with neighboring retail developments
                                         in Fremont and San Jose.
Implement Policy 2.a-I-6                 Consistent. The project proposes a mix of commercial
   Endeavors to maintain a               uses that that includes a supermarket, retail services,
   balanced economic base that can       offices, and food service establishments that provides one
   resist downturns in any one           stop shopping experience that will cater to nearby
   economic sector.                      residents and the region.
Implementing Policy 2.a-I-7              Consistent. The project will expand employment
   Provides opportunities to expand      opportunities and allows for the promotion of local
   employment, participate in            business.
   partnerships with local business
   to facilitate communication, and
   promote business retention.

Zoning Ordinance
As demonstrated in the above analysis, the project is consistent with the General Plan in the terms of
land use and conforms to the Milpitas Zoning Ordinance. The project provides a mix of commercial
uses that include a food market, future restaurants, commercial services and retail uses that are
permitted and/conditionally permitted in the General Commercial zoning district.
SD08-0006, UP08-0028, and EA09-0003                                                 Page 11
Landess Retail Center Project


The proposed project provides architecturally compatible with the scale of surrounding structures. The
design of the commercial portion of the project incorporates attractive architectural features including
tile treatments, metal canopies, fabric awnings, new plaza treatments and new tower elements. The
project also uses colors that are warm earth tone colors that would be complement surrounding
buildings. The applicant is also proposing landscaping enhancements for the site that will improve the
appearance of the center. Overall, the site is transformed from a "big box" to a well articulated
commercial building with appropriate elements.

The proposed retail center will not adversely impact existing properties, improvements, or the public
health, safety and general welfare of neighboring residents within the area, in that the intended uses will
service public need and convenience. As conditioned, the operations related to construction activities
and truck traffic associated shipping and receiving operations shall adhere to the Milpitas Noise
Ordinance Regulations that prohibits any disturbing noises between the hours of 10:00PM to 7:00AM.
Parking regulations shall be enforced through the permit review process for restaurant to ensure
adequate parking is being maintained. Given the proximity to residential uses, staff recommends as a
condition of approval that odors control equipment shall be required as part of any restaurant tenant
improvement. In addition, solid waste enclosures as well as trash and recycling compactor equipment
shall be equipped with an odor control system that shall be routinely maintained and serviced.

ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW
The Planning Division conducted an initial environmental assessment of the project in accordance with
the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). An Initial Study and Negative Declaration were
prepared and circulated for the project. The Environmental Assessment (Attachment G) determined
there would be no significant impacts related to this project. The twenty-day public review period was
held between February 5, 2009 to February 20, 2009. No comments were received during the public
review period.

PUBLIC COMMENT/OUTREACH
A community meeting was held on September 29, 2008 at Rancho Middle School Multi-purpose
Room. There were approximately 28 people in attendance. The concerns that were identified by the
attendees included the following:
        Potential noise from truck deliveries,
        Increasing traffic on Park Victoria and Landess,
        Operating hours of retail center that may conflict with the quiet enjoyment of the adjacent
           residential neighborhood,
        Potential odor issues with trash generated form the food market and restaurants,
        Sanitation and upkeep of the center, and
        Enforcement of the back area to prevent outdoor storage of materials (i.e. pallets, boxes,
           garbage, etc)

Staff publicly noticed the application in accordance with City and State law. At of the time of writing
this report, there have been several inquiries from the public. Comments have ranged from requesting
more information regarding the project proposal to concerns with overconcentration of restaurants.
Copies of the comment are included with the staff report as Attachment H.

CONCLUSION
SD08-0006, UP08-0028, and EA09-0003                                            Page 12
Landess Retail Center Project


The proposed project is consistent with the Milpitas General Plan and Zoning Ordinance. The
proposed mixed commercial development would revitalize an underutilized site that has been vacant for
the past two years. The project expands job opportunities and furthers economic development in the
city. The project includes architectural modifications that provide for an aesthetic and harmonious
development that complements the scale of development in the surrounding area and is appropriate at
this location.

RECOMMENDATION
STAFF RECOMMENDS THAT the Planning Commission adopt Resolution No. 09-014 approving
Site Development Permit No. SD08-0006, Conditional Use Permit No. UP08-0028, and Environmental
Assessment No. EA09-0003, Landess Retail Center Project, subject to the attached Conditions Of
Approval.

Attachments:
    A. Resolution/Conditions of Approval
    B. Plans
    C. Alternative West Elevation
    D. Traffic Impact Analysis Report
    E. Solid Waste and Recycling Handling Plan
    F. Stormwater Control Plan
    G. Environmental Assessment No. EA09-0003 (Initial Study and Negative Declaration)
    H. Comment letters from the public
                                                                        ATTACHMENT A


                                  RESOLUTION NO. 09-014

 A RESOLUTION OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF MILPITAS,
    CALIFORNIA, APPROVING SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT NO. SD08-0006,
      CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT NO. UP08-0028, AND ENVIRONMENTAL
 ASSESSMENT NO. EA09-0003, LANDESS RETAIL CENTER PROJECT, TO ALLOW
    FOR A MIXED COMMERCIAL RETAIL CENTER AND INSTALLATION OF
    ASSOCIATED SITE AND EXTERIOR IMPROVEMENTS LOCATED AT 1535
                           LANDESS AVENUE.

        WHEREAS, on July 23, 2008, an application was submitted by Dinna Bayangos,
Ayafafil Management LLC, 255 Shoreline Drive, Suite 428, Mountain View, CA 954065, to
allow for the redevelopment of an existing 93,704 square foot commercial building into a mixed
commercial retail center. The project proposal entails site and building modifications that
includes a 26,669 square two-story addition, exterior upgrade of the building façade, and
installation of associated site improvements. The project also requires a Conditional Use Permit
for the proposed 32,975 square foot food market. The property is located at 1535 Landess
Avenue (APN 88-35-017), zoned General Commercial with Site and Architectural Overlay (C2-
S); and

        WHEREAS, the applicant held a community meeting on September 29, 2008 with
surrounding neighborhood in which 28 people attended the meeting to provide comments on the
project; and

       WHEREAS, the Planning Division prepared and circulated an Initial Study and Negative
Declaration in accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act. The environmental
assessment determined there would be no significant impacts related to this project. The
document was circulated between February 5, 2009 and February 20, 2009; and

       WHEREAS, on March 11, 2008, the Planning Commission held a duly noticed public
hearing on the subject application, and considered evidence presented by City staff, the
applicant, and other interested parties.

       NOW THEREFORE, the Planning Commission of the City of Milpitas hereby finds,
determines and resolves as follows:

       Section 1: The recitals set forth above are true and correct and incorporated herein by
reference.

         Section 2: The Planning Division prepared and circulated an Initial Study and Negative
Declaration in accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act. The environmental
assessment determined there would be no significant impacts related to this project in that the
site is an existing development that is served by existing infrastructures, the proposed uses does
not exceed an CEQA threshold for traffic impacts, and does not create any substantial noise
impacts.
Resolution No. 09-010                                                              Page 2

       Section 3: The project is consistent with the General Plan's policies in that the proposed
mixed commercial development encourages further economic development, expands job
opportunities, and would revitalize a commercial site that is currently underutilized.

       Section 4: The site is suitable and adequate for the proposed use because it will be
located within an area that is accessible from Interstate 680, Montague Expressway, Landess
Avenue, and Dempsey Road that provides convenient access. The project will not require a
substantial amount of preparation for site work (e.g., grading), because the property is already
developed. Furthermore, the future commercial uses will be compatible with the purpose of the
General Commercial Zoning District.

        Section 5: The proposed use would not have a substantial adverse economic effect on
nearby uses because it would not reduce business activities or commercial uses in the area and
would help encourage positive retail growth and expand its retail base to capture neighboring
cities.

        Section 6: The project conforms to the Milpitas Zoning Ordinance in terms of land use,
development standards, and parking provisions subject to the effective date of parking ordinance
amendment. The proposed food market is permitted with the approval of a conditional use
permit.

       Section 7: The proposed project provides an architectural compatibility with the scale of
surrounding structures and provides for aesthetic and harmonious development. The project
proposes to visually enhance the building façade and rehabilitation of the overall site
landscaping.

        Section 8: The proposed project will not adversely impact the general welfare of
residents within the area, and that the intended uses will service public need and convenience.
As conditioned, the proposed project would not be detrimental to the general welfare of persons
residing in the immediate vicinity, the neighborhood, or the community at large, surrounding
uses and environment, and would not create nuisances within the community in the immediate
vicinity.

       Section 10: The Planning Commission of the City of Milpitas hereby approves Site
Development Permit No. SD08-0006, Conditional Use Permit No. UP08-0028, and
Environmental Assessment No. EA09-0003, Landess Retail Center Project, subject to the above
Findings, and Conditions of Approval attached hereto as Exhibit 1.

PASSED AND ADOPTED at a regular meeting of the Planning Commission of the City of
Milpitas on March 11, 2009

                                             ____________________________________
                                                         Chair


TO WIT:
Resolution No. 09-010                                                       Page 3



I HEREBY CERTIFY that the following resolution was duly adopted at a regular meeting of
the Planning Commission of the City of Milpitas on March 11, 2009, and carried by the
following roll call vote:

COMMISSIONER                AYES     NOES        OTHER

Cliff Williams
Lawrence Ciardella
Alexander Galang
Sudhir Mandal
Gurdev Sandhu
Noella Tabladillo
Aslam Ali
Resolution No. 09-010                                                             Page 4


                                                                                    EXHIBIT 1

                       CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
 SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT NO. SD08-0006, CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT NO.
   UP08-0028, AND ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT NO. EA09-0003, LANDESS
                        RETAIL CENTER PROJECT

Site Development Permit
      1. The owner or designee shall develop the approved project in conformance with the
         approved plans and color and materials sample boards approved by the Planning
         Commission on March 11, 2009, in accordance with these Conditions of Approval.

      Any deviation from the approved site plan, floor plans, elevations, materials, colors,
      landscape plan, or other approved submittal shall require that, prior to the issuance of
      building permits, the owner or designee shall submit modified plans and any other
      applicable materials as required by the City for review and obtain the approval of the
      Planning Director or Designee. If the Planning Director or designee determines that the
      deviation is significant, the owner or designee shall be required to apply for review and
      obtain approval of the Planning Commission, in accordance with the Zoning Ordinance.

      2. Site Development Permit No. SD08-0006 and Conditional Use Permit No. UP08-
         0028 shall become null and void if the project is not commenced within 18 months
         from the date of approval. Pursuant to Section 64.04-2 of the Zoning Ordinance of
         the City of Milpitas, since the project requires the issuance of a building permit, the
         project shall not be deemed to have commenced until the date of the building permit
         is issued and a foundation is completed.

      3. Pursuant to Section 64.04-1, the owner or designee shall have the right to request an
         extension of Site Development Permit No. SD08-0006 and Conditional Use Permit
         No. UP08-0028 if said request is made, filed and approved by the Planning
         Commission prior to expiration dates set forth herein.

      4. The proposed project shall be conducted in compliance with all applicable federal,
         state, and local regulations.

      5. Private Job Account - If at the time of application for building permit there is a
         project job account balance due to the City for recovery of review fees, review of
         permits will not be initiated until the balance is paid in full.

      6. Private Job Account - If at the time of application for a certificate of occupancy there
         is a project job account balance due to the City for recovery of review fees, a
         certificate of occupancy shall not be issued until the balance is paid in full.

      7. Prior to the first building permit issuance for the site, the applicant shall submit a
         revised parking lot plan to the approval of the Planning Division that evenly distribute
Resolution No. 09-010                                                               Page 5

          compact spaces throughout the parking area to provide opportunity of all types of cars
          to park without larger vehicles occupying more than one space.

      8. At the time of adoption of these conditions of approval, the City was in the process of
         updating the City's Parking Ordinance. If the Ordinance amendments were not
         adopted by the City Council, the applicant would be obligated to ensure that the
         number of parking provided for the project matches the amount of parking required
         by the Parking Ordinance in effect. This may mean that the scope of the project
         would need to be reduced.

      9. A detailed landscaping plan and irrigation shall be submitted and approved by the
         Planning Division prior to building permit submittal. The plan shall include details of
         the following:

             a. The plan shall indicate location and type of trees, shrubs and ground cover,
                including plant type, plant name, container size quantities, and spacing.
             b. The landscape plan shall comply with City Council Ordinance No. 238 (An
                ordinance of the City of Milpitas regulating efficient water use for new or
                rehabilitated landscapes and existing landscapes)
             c. All new planter areas along the building, modified parking aisles, and revised
                landscaped street frontages shall incorporate the use of structural soil to
                ensure proper growth and prevent damage to surrounding paved areas.
             d. All mechanical equipment and boxes shall be screened from all views (public
                and private).
             e. All planter areas shall be serviced by an automatic system with low volume
                drip, spray or bubbler emitters.
             f. Planter pots installed on paving shall be provided with irrigation and be
                designed to drain to the storm drain.
             g. Missing or dead trees and shrubs located in the existing landscaped areas shall
                be replaced with an appropriate tree or plant material subject to the approval
                of the Planning Division.

      10. Prior to building permit final, all required landscaping shall be planted and in place.

      11. All required landscaping shall be maintained in perpetuity to provide a permanent,
          attractive and effective appearance.

      12. Prior to building permit issuance the applicant shall demonstrate conformance with
          the follow conditions for solid waste and recycling enclosures:

             a. Trash and recycling service area shall be development in accordance with the
                Milpitas Trash Enclosure Design Standards.
             b. Trash and Recycling service areas shall include a roof cover element such as
                but not limited to roof canopy, decorative trellis, or other design for Planning
                Division review and approval.
Resolution No. 09-010                                                               Page 6

             c. If at any time there is a problem with bins outside of their enclosures and
                obstruct vehicle parking or on-site circulation, roll-out service through the
                local refuse collection company shall be required.
             d. To ensure that the level of solid waste collection service is adequate, an
                evaluation of refuse service be done after the businesses have opened by the
                refuse company and the city Solid Waste Division.
             e. All garbage or recycling bins shall be stored in enclosures.

      13. Prior to building permit issuance, the applicant shall revise plans to replace the
          existing dock railing on the north side of the dock area with screen wall to dampen
          noise from loading and trash service activities.

      14. Prior to building permit issuance, an exterior lighting plan shall be submitted for
          Planning Division review and approval. All lighting on the property shall be oriented
          or screened to prevent glare and light spillage onto adjacent residential areas. Plans
          submitted to the Planning Division shall contain sufficient detail on the illumination
          devices proposed so that the effect of such lighting on the adjacent areas can be
          evaluated. The type of lighting fixture, mounting height, intensity and direction shall
          be detailed on the plans. Wall mounted fixtures on the sides of the buildings shall be
          spaced so as to be architecturally integrated into the building design. Fixture design
          shall not consist of the standard wall-pack model.

      15. Exterior mounted electrical equipment and conduit shall be kept to a visible
          minimum, and where visible, shall be screened and installed in a neat and orderly
          fashion. It shall be painted to blend with its mounting background.

      16. Prior to building permit issuance, all color permutations for all buildings shall be
          submitted to the Planning Division for review and approval.

      17. Any future restaurant use shall obtain a conditional use permit prior to any tenant
          improvement and/or occupancy for the operations and compliance with Zoning
          regulations.

      18. The final design of the pylon sign and associated sign program shall be submitted as a
          separate review prior to the erection of any signs for site and architectural review and
          approval to ensure high quality design and conformance with the Milpitas Sign
          Ordinance.

      19. Construction activities shall adhere to the following performance standards:

             a. Pursuant to the City of Milpitas Municipal Code, no person shall engage or
                permit others to engage in construction of any building or related road or
                walkway, pool or landscape improvement or in the construction operations
                related thereto, including delivery of construction materials, supplies, or
                improvements on or to a construction site except within the hours of 7:00 AM
                to 7:00 PM on weekdays..
Resolution No. 09-010                                                               Page 7

             b. The contractor shall be required to use available noise suppression devices
                and properly maintain and muffle internal combustion engine-driven
                construction equipment.
             c. The contractor shall be required to use noise barriers or noise control blankets
                to shield stationary equipment from nearby noise-sensitive receptors.
             d. The contractor shall designate a disturbance coordinator and post the name
                and phone number of this person at easy reference points for the surrounding
                land uses. The disturbance coordinator would respond to all complaints about
                noise and take the necessary steps to reduce the problem.

      20. Above ground utilities, such as those for fire service for sprinkler systems, shall be
          designed as architectural components or provided internal to the buildings or
          adequately screened.

      21. The issuance of building permits to implement this land use development will be
          suspended if necessary to stay within (1) available water supplies, or (2) the safe or
          allocated capacity at the San Jose/Santa Clara Water Pollution Control Plant, and will
          remain suspended until water and sewage capacity are available. No vested right to
          the issuance of a Building Permit is acquired by the approval of this land
          development. The foregoing provisions are a material (demand/supply) condition to
          this approval.

      22. Prior to issuance of any building permits, the developer shall obtain approval from the
          City Engineer of the water, sewer, and storm drain studies for this development.
          These studies shall identify the development's effect on the City's present Master
          Plans and the impact of this development on the trunk lines. If the results of the study
          indicate that this development contributes to the over-capacity of the trunk line, it is
          anticipated that the developer will be required to mitigate the overflow or shortage by
          construction of a parallel line or pay a mitigation charge, if acceptable to the City
          Engineer.

      23. At the time of building permit submittal, developer shall submit a grading plan and a
          drainage study prepared by a registered Civil Engineer. The drainage study shall
          analyze the existing and ultimate conditions and facilities. The study shall be
          reviewed and approved by the City Engineer and the developer shall satisfy the
          conclusions and recommendations of the approved drainage study prior to building
          permit issuance.

      24. Prior to building permit issuance, the developer shall obtain design approval and bond
          for all necessary public improvements along Dempsey Road and Landess Avenue
          frontage, including but not limited to, removal and replacement of the damaged curb,
          gutter and sidewalk along project frontage, Dempsey Road median modification,
          roadway structural section and slurry seal of the street frontage and restriping of the
          Dempsey Road frontage. Plans for all public improvements shall be prepared on
          Mylar (24"x36" sheets) with City Standard Title Block and developer shall submit a
          digital format of the Record Drawings (AutoCAD format is preferred) upon
Resolution No. 09-010                                                              Page 8

          completion of improvements. The developer shall also execute a secured public
          improvement agreement. The agreement shall be secured for an amount of 100% of
          the engineer's estimate of the construction cost for faithful performance and 100% of
          the engineer's estimate of the construction cost for labor & materials. The public
          facilities such as water meters, RP backflow preventers, sewer clean outs, etc., shall
          be placed so access is maintained and kept clear of traffic. All improvements must be
          in accordance with the City of Milpitas standard and specification, and all public
          improvements shall be constructed to the city Engineer's satisfaction and accepted by
          the City prior to building occupancy permit issuance/final inspection.

      25. The developer shall submit the following items with the building permit application
          and pay the related fees, following fees are estimates and the actual fees will be
          calculated at the time of building permit submittal:

             a. The water connection fee of $78,613, to be collected as part of the Tennant
                 Improvement permit submittal.
             b. The sewer connection fee of $112,191, to be collected as part of the Tennant
                 Improvement permit submittal.
             c. Storm water connection fee of $156,325 based on 7.25 acres @ $21,562 per
                 acre, to be paid for prior to building permit issuance.
             d. Sewer Treatment Plant Fee of $136,746.62, to be collected as part of the
                 Tennant Improvement permit submittal.
             e. Sewer Needs Questionnaire and/or Industrial Waste Questionnaire.
          Contact the Land Development Section of the Engineering Division at (408) 586-
          3329 to obtain the form(s).

      26. The Developer shall be responsible to pay a traffic impact fee in the amount of
          $115,584.00 (based on a Montague Expressway impact fee of $903 per peak hour
          trip). Prior to any building permit issuance, the developer shall pay 50% of the Traffic
          Impact fee. The Developer shall pay the reminder of the 50% of the traffic impact fee
          prior to final inspection or issuance of building certificate of occupancy.

      27. In addition to the Montague Express way Impact fee, prior to any building permit
          issuance the developer shall pay for the cost of the plan line study in the amount of
          $20,000 for the Landess/Park Victoria improvements.

      28. Prior to building permit issuance, the developer must pay all applicable development
          fees, including but not limited to, connection fees (water, sewer and storm), treatment
          plant fee, plan check and inspection deposit, and 2.5% permit automation fee. These
          fees are collected as part of the secured public improvement agreement. The
          agreement shall be secured for an amount of 100% of the engineer's estimate of the
          construction cost for faithful performance and 100% of the engineer's estimate of the
          construction cost for labor & materials.

      29. Prior to occupancy permit issuance, applicant/property owner shall construct a new
          trash enclosure or expand the existing enclosure to accommodate the required number
Resolution No. 09-010                                                              Page 9

          of bins needed to serve this development. The proposed enclosure shall be designed
          per the Development Guidelines for Solid Waste Services and enclosure drains must
          discharge to sanitary sewer line. City review/approval is required prior to construction
          of the enclosure.

      30. All utilities shall be properly disconnected before the building can be demolished.
          Show (state) how the water service(s), sewer service(s) and storm service(s) will be
          disconnected. The water service shall be locked off in the meter box and
          disconnected or capped immediately behind the water meter if it is not to be used.
          The sanitary sewer shall be capped off at the clean out near the property line or
          approved location if it is not to be used. The storm drain shall be capped off at a
          manhole or inlet structure or approved location if it is not to be used.

      31. Prior to demolition permit issuance, the Applicant, or Contracted Designee, shall
          submit Part I of a Recycling Report on business letterhead to the Building Division,
          for forwarding to the Engineering Section. This initial report shall be approved by the
          City's Utility Engineering/Solid Waste Section prior to demolition permit issuance.
          The report shall describe these resource recovery activities:

             a.   What materials will be salvaged.
             b.   How materials will be processed during demolition.
             c.   Intended locations or businesses for reuse or recycling.
             d.   Quantity estimates in tons (both recyclable and for landfill disposal).
                  Estimates for recycling and disposal tonnage amounts by material type shall
                  be included as separate items in all reports to the Building Division before
                  demolition begins.

          Applicant/Contractor shall make every effort to salvage materials for reuse and
          recycling.

      32. Prior to building permit issuance, applicant shall submit Part II of the Recycling
          Report to the Building Division, for forwarding to the City's Utility
          Engineering/Solid Waste Section, that confirms items 1 ­ 4 of the Recycling Report,
          especially materials generated and actual quantities of recycled materials. Part II of
          the Recycling Report shall be supported by copies of weight tags and/or receipts of
          "end dumps." Actual reuse, recycling and disposal tonnage amounts (and estimates
          for "end dumps") shall be submitted to the Building Division for approval by the
          Utility Engineering/Solid Waste Section prior to inspection by the Building Division.

      33. All demolished materials including, but not limited to broken concrete and paving
          materials, pipe, vegetation, and other unsuitable materials, excess earth, building
          debris, etc., shall be removed from the job site for recycling and/or disposal by the
          Applicant/Contractor, all to the satisfaction of the City Engineer or designee. The
          Applicant/Contractor shall, to the maximum extent possible, reuse any useful
          construction materials generated during the demolition and construction project. The
          Applicant/Contractor shall recycle all building and paving materials including, but
Resolution No. 09-010                                                            Page 10

          not limited to roofing materials, wood, drywall, metals, and miscellaneous and
          composite materials, aggregate base material, asphalt, and concrete. The
          Applicant/Contractor shall perform all recycling and/or disposal by removal from the
          job site.

      34. At the time of building plan check submittal, the developer shall incorporated the
          changes and address the comments shown on Engineering Services Exhibit "S"(dated
          3/2/2009).

   Conditional Use Permit

      35. Planning approval is for the operations of a 32,975 square foot food market that
          includes the on-site sales of beer and wine and hot deli service. Any modification to
          the operations and use shall require a conditional use permit amendment.

      36. The applicant shall submit a mall security plans that addressing staffing and security
          measures to deter people from congregating in the parking lot areas and creating
          nuisances. Furthermore, the applicant shall display "No Loitering" signs that state
          patrons or persons must vacate the premises no later than 30 minutes after closing.

      37. Deliveries for the food market shall only occur between the hours of 8:00AM and
          5:00PM.

      38. Staffing hours for the food market shall be between the hours of 6:00AM to Midnight
          but opened to the public between the hours of 8:00AM to 9:00PM.
ATTACHMENT B
                                                                                                               PROJECT # 70078
                                                                                                               DATE: November 06, 2008
 AYALAFIL            (US) CO., INC
 255 SHORELINE DRIVE


                                                                       MILPITAS RETAIL CENTER MILPITAS,
 SUITE 428
 REDWOOD CITY, CA 94064
 TEL: 650.508.2000
 FAX: 650.508.8988
                                                                                                          CA
                                                           DEVELOPER   LANDESS AVE. & DEMPSEY RD.
THIS PLAN WAS PREPARED FROM INFORMATION FURNISHED BY THE
OWNER AND WILL BE SUBJECT TO MODIFICATIONS AS REQUIRED
BY A FINAL SURVEY AND GOVERNING AGENCY APPROVALS.                                                                        1833 Victory Boulevard | Glendale, CA 91201
                                                               NOTE                                                   818 246 6050 | 818 240 0430 fax | www.gkkworks.com
Mar
  .2,
    2009
ATTACHMENT C
                                           ATTACHMENT D




   1535 Landess Avenue
  Mixed Use Development

 Transportation Impact Analysis




             Prepared for:
            City of Milpitas




             Prepared by:
Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc.




           February 17, 2009
Table of Contents
Executive Summary ..................................................................................................................................iv
1. Introduction .......................................................................................................................................1
2. Existing Conditions ...........................................................................................................................8
3. Background Conditions .....................................................................................................................19
4. Project Impacts and Mitigation Measures .........................................................................................23
5. Other Transportation Impacts............................................................................................................34
6. Future Growth Conditions.................................................................................................................44


Appendices
Appendix A:            Traffic Counts
Appendix B:            Approved Trips Inventory
Appendix C:            Volume Summary Tables
Appendix D:            Level of Service Calculations
Appendix E:            Signal Warrant Sheets
Appendix F:            Driveway Queuing
Appendix G:            Plan Line Study


List of Tables
Table ES 1             Intersection Level of Service Summary ............................................................................vi
Table ES 2             Freeway Level of Service Summary.................................................................................vii

Table 1        Signalized Intersection Level of Service Definitions Based on Delay ........................................ 5
Table 2        Unsignalized Intersection Level of Service Definitions Based on Delay.................................... 5
Table 3        Freeway Segment Level of Service Based on Density ................................................................ 6
Table 4        Existing Intersection Levels of Service ..................................................................................... 16
Table 5        Existing Freeway Ramp Capacity Analysis............................................................................... 17
Table 6        Existing Freeway Levels of Service .......................................................................................... 17
Table 7        Background Intersection Levels of Service ............................................................................... 21
Table 8        Background Freeway Ramp Capacity Analysis......................................................................... 22
Table 9        Project Trip Generation Estimates............................................................................................. 28
Table 10       Project Intersection Levels of Service ....................................................................................... 31
Table 11       Project Freeway Ramp Capacity Analysis................................................................................. 32
Table 12       Project Freeway Level of Service Analysis............................................................................... 33
Table 13       Peak Hour Signal Warrant Summary ........................................................................................ 35
Table 14       Left turn Queuing Analysis........................................................................................................ 36
Table 15       Future Growth Intersection Level of Service Analysis ............................................................. 45




Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc.
1535 Landess Avenue Mixed Use Development                                                                                                                  ii
List of Figures
Figure 1     Site Location and Study Intersections .................................................................................... 2
Figure 2     Existing Bicycle Facilities .................................................................................................... 10
Figure 3     Existing Transit Service........................................................................................................ 11
Figure 4     Existing Lane Configurations ............................................................................................... 13
Figure 5     Existing Traffic Volumes...................................................................................................... 14
Figure 6     Background Traffic Volumes ............................................................................................... 20
Figure 7     Project Trip Distribution....................................................................................................... 26
Figure 8     Project Trip Assignment ....................................................................................................... 27
Figure 9     Project Traffic Volumes........................................................................................................ 30
Figure 10    Site Plan ................................................................................................................................ 40
Figure 11    Project Driveway Volumes................................................................................................... 41




Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc.
1535 Landess Avenue Mixed Use Development                                                                                                              iii
Executive Summary
This report presents the results of the transportation impact analysis conducted for the proposed 1535
Landess Avenue mixed-use development in Milpitas, California. The project proposes to replace an
existing 80,704 square-foot (s.f.) Home Depot home improvement store and related 14,279 s.f. garden
center with a mixed-use development consisting of a 35,000 s.f. grocery store, 12,532 s.f. of restaurants, a
13,155 s.f. food court, 13,524 s.f. of retail and 11,412 s.f. of office space. Access to the site will be
provided via two existing driveways on Landess Avenue and one existing driveway on Dempsey Road.
Parking would be provided onsite.

The potential impacts of the project were evaluated in accordance with the standards set forth by the City
of Milpitas, City of San Jose and the Congestion Management Program (CMP) of Santa Clara County.
The study included an analysis of AM, midday (selected intersections), and PM peak hour traffic
conditions for 12 signalized intersections, 1 unsignalized intersection, and 3 directional freeway segments
in the vicinity of the project site.


Project Trip Generation and Distribution
The magnitude of traffic generated by the proposed project was estimated by applying to the size of the
development the applicable trip generation rates. On the basis of the trip generation rates recommended
by the San Diego Association of Governments (SANDAG), the proposed project would generate 8,175
gross daily vehicle trips, with 433 vehicle trips occurring during the AM peak hour, 640 vehicle trips
during the midday peak hour, and 617 vehicle trips during the PM peak hour. Trip credits were estimated
to account for the vacant 94,983 square-foot home improvement store currently on the site. After
subtracting the existing facility's potential vehicle trips, the proposed project would generate 5,325 net
daily trips, with 234 new primary AM peak hour trips, 410 new primary midday peak hour trips, and 411
new primary PM peak hour trips. In addition, the project would generate 127 midday peak hour pass-by
trips and 117 PM peak hour pass-by trips. Pass-by trips are different than primary trips in that they only
occur immediately around the project site. The trip distribution pattern for the proposed project was based
on existing travel patterns and the locations of complementary land uses.




Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc.
1535 Landess Avenue Mixed Use Development                                                                 iv
Intersection Level of Service Analysis
Project impacts were determined based on the appropriate significance criteria. Under project conditions,
the results show that all of the study intersections would operate at an acceptable LOS (see Table ES-1).


Project Freeway Segment Impacts
Traffic volumes on the study freeway segments under project conditions were estimated by adding project
trips to the existing volumes obtained from the 2006 CMP Annual Monitoring Report. The results show
that the project would not cause a significant increase in traffic volume (more than one percent of
capacity) on any of the study freeway segments (see Table ES-2).


Freeway Ramp Capacity Analysis
The ramp analysis showed that each of the ramps analyzed currently has sufficient capacity to serve the
existing traffic volumes and would continue to have sufficient capacity under the near-term and far-term
conditions without and with the project. All of the study ramps are expected to have volume-to-capacity
(V/C) ratios less than 1.0.


Unsignalized Intersections
For the unsignalized intersection of Park Victoria Drive and Mount Shasta Avenue, an assessment was
made of the need for signalization of the intersection. This assessment was made on the basis of the Peak-
hour Volume Signal Warrant, Warrant #3 described in the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices,
2003. This method makes no evaluation of intersection level of service, but simply provides an indication
whether peak-hour traffic volumes would be sufficient to justify installation of a traffic signal. The
analysis showed that the peak-hour volume warrant would not be satisfied under existing, background,
project, or future growth conditions (it should be noted that the warrant used for the analysis is only one
potential check out of eleven possible warrants). In addition, the intersection LOS on the worst leg under
project conditions would be LOS C during the AM peak hour and PM peak hour. Because (1) the LOS
would be acceptable and (2) the peak hour signal warrant check would not be satisfied, no future
improvements are recommended.


Left Turn Pocket Operations
The analysis of project intersection levels of service was supplemented with an analysis of intersection
operations for selected intersections. The analysis indicated that the existing vehicle storage capacity for
the intersections would be adequate for the estimated AM, midday, and PM peak hour maximum vehicle
queues under all conditions except for the following:

Great Mall Parkway/Capitol Avenue and Montague Expressway ­ The estimated maximum vehicle
queues for the southbound left turn movement at the intersection of Great Mall Parkway/Capitol Avenue
and Montague Expressway would exceed the existing vehicle storage capacity under all conditions during
the midday peak hour and PM peak hour. The southbound left turn vehicle storage on Great Mall



Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc.
1535 Landess Avenue Mixed Use Development                                                                      v
Table ES 1
Intersection Level of Service Summary

                                                                                                                                                                          Future Growth
                                                                                     Existing      Background             Project Conditions              No Project                With Project
                                                                Peak     Count     Avg.            Avg.            Avg.           Incr. In   Incr. In   Avg.           Avg.               Incr. In     Incr. In
                                                                Hour     Date      Delay LOS       Delay LOS       Delay LOS Crit. Delay Crit. V/C      Delay   LOS    Delay    LOS     Crit. Delay   Crit. V/C
Main Street & Great Mall Parkway                                 AM     10/18/07    20.7    C      24.9     C      25.0    C        0.2        0.01     25.4     C     25.5      C          0.2         0.01
                                                                 PM     10/18/07    26.8    C      30.8     C      31.0    C        0.5        0.01     31.6     C     31.9      C          0.6         0.01
Great Mall Drive/McCandless Drive & Great Mall Parkway           AM     10/08/08    15.2    B      15.5     B      15.6    B        0.0        0.00     15.8     B     15.8      B          0.0         0.00
                                                                 PM     10/08/08    20.3    C      20.2     C      20.1    C        0.0        0.01     20.4     C     20.4      C          0.0         0.01
Great Mall Parkway/Capitol Avenue & Montague Expressway*         AM     09/04/07    37.8    D      43.5     D      45.0    D        4.6        0.01     46.1     D     47.8      D          5.3         0.01
                                                                 MD     10/09/08    50.1    D      55.8     E      58.7    E        6.3        0.02     60.0     E     63.0      E          6.9         0.02
                                                                 PM     10/10/06    56.2    E      61.6     E      62.6    E        2.5        0.02     63.8     E     65.1      E          3.0         0.02
Milpitas Boulevard & Montague Expressway* /a/                    AM     08/06/08    25.5    C      25.2     C      25.2    C        0.2        0.01     27.2     C     27.2      C          0.2         0.01
                                                                 MD     10/09/08    31.9    C      30.6     C      30.3    C       -0.2        0.01     32.6     C     32.3      C         -0.1         0.01
                                                                 PM     10/10/06    39.6    D      41.3     D      41.3    D       -0.2        0.01     42.9     D     42.9      D         -0.3         0.01
Pecten Court & Montague Expressway                               AM     10/08/08    15.7    B      16.8     B      16.9    B        0.2        0.01     18.6     B     18.7      B          0.3         0.01
                                                                 PM     10/08/08    17.4    B      16.6     B      16.5    B        0.1        0.01     17.0     B     17.0      B          0.1         0.01
Dempsey Road & Landess Avenue                                    AM     10/07/08    36.2    D      40.1     D      47.4    D       11.2        0.08     46.8     D     54.3      D         10.1         0.03
                                                                 MD     10/09/08    23.1    C      26.1     C      36.3    D       14.7        0.20     26.6     C     33.8      C         10.9         0.15
                                                                 PM     10/07/08    24.9    C      27.7     C      37.9    D       16.6        0.18     28.4     C     35.5      D         11.7         0.13
Park Victoria Drive & Landess Avenue                             AM     10/09/08    38.8    D      41.2     D      44.8    D        6.1        0.03     45.8     D     50.9      D          8.5         0.03
                                                                 MD     10/09/08    31.2    C      32.0     C      33.6    C        3.1        0.06     32.8     C     34.7      C          3.8         0.06
                                                                 PM     10/09/08    30.8    C      31.3     C      32.5    C        2.8        0.05     32.1     C     33.4      C          3.2         0.05
Clear Lake Avenue/Treewood Lane & Landess Avenue                 AM     10/09/08    14.2    B      14.1     B      14.2    B        0.1        0.01     14.2     B     14.2      B          0.1         0.01
                                                                 MD     10/09/08    16.7    B      16.6     B      16.5    B        0.1        0.01     16.5     B     16.5      B          0.1         0.01
                                                                 PM     10/09/08    11.4    B      11.4     B      11.5    B        0.1        0.01     11.4     B     11.5      B          0.1         0.01
Yellowstone Avenue/Corktree Lane & Landess Avenue                AM     10/09/08    24.9    C      24.9     C      25.0    C        0.1       0.01      25.4     C     25.5      C          0.1         0.01
                                                                 PM     10/09/08    18.9    B      19.0     B      19.2    B        0.1       0.01      19.2     B     19.3      B          0.1         0.01
Park Victoria Drive & Yosemite Drive                             AM     10/08/08    30.5    C      30.5     C      30.6    C        0.1       0.00      30.9     C     30.9      C          0.1         0.00
                                                                 PM     10/08/08    29.9    C      30.0     C      30.1    C        0.1       0.01      30.3     C     30.4      C          0.1         0.01
Park Victoria Drive & Mount Shasta Avenue (unsignalized)         AM     10/07/08    1.2     A       1.2     A       1.2    A        0.0       0.00       1.3     A      1.3      A          0.0         0.00
                                                                 PM     10/21/08    1.5     A       1.6     A       1.6    A        0.0       0.00       1.6     A      1.7      A          0.0         0.00
Park Victoria Drive & Big Basin Drive /a/                        AM     10/07/08    9.7     A      9.7      A      9.8     A       0.9        0.00      9.5      A     9.5       A         0.0          0.00
                                                                 MD     10/09/08    11.4    B      11.2     B      10.9    B       -0.2       0.01      11.1     B     10.8      B         -0.2         0.01
                                                                 PM     10/07/08    11.9    B      11.8     B      11.5    B       -0.2       0.01      11.7     B     11.5      B         -0.1         0.01
Morrill Avenue & Cropley Avenue /a/                              AM     10/09/08    30.1    C      30.3     C      30.3    C       0.2        0.01      30.4     C     30.5      C          0.2         0.01
                                                                 PM     10/09/08    26.0    C      26.0     C      26.2    C       -1.7       -0.02     26.4     C     26.4      C         -0.2         0.01

* Denotes CMP intersection
/a/ Average delay decreases under Project Conditions because of the addition of trips to non-critical movements.




Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc.
1535 Landess Avenue Mixed Use Development                                                                                                                                                                 vi
Table ES 2
Freeway Level of Service Summary

                                                                                                             Existing Trips /a/                      Project Trips
                                                                              Peak       Ave.       # of    Capacity                                             %
Freeway    Segment                                                Direction   Hour      Speed      Lanes     (vph)     Volume     Density   LOS   Volume     Capacity   Impact?
I-680      Capitol Ave               to Montague Expwy               NB        AM         57            4    9,200      8,914      39.1     D       24        0.3%       NO
                                                                               PM         66            4    9,200      5,840      22.1     C       30        0.3%       NO
I-680      Montague Expwy            to Yosemite Dr                  NB        AM         65            4    9,200      7,808      30.0     D        8        0.1%       NO
                                                                               PM         66            4    9,200      7,411      28.1     D       21        0.2%       NO
I-680      Yosemite Dr               to Calaveras Blvd / SR 237      NB        AM         45            4    8,050      8,648      54.9      E       8        0.1%       NO
                                                                               PM         50            4    8,050      8,821      50.4      E      21        0.3%       NO
I-680      Calaveras Blvd / SR 237   to Yosemite Dr                  SB        AM         66            4    9,200      6,616      25.1     C       16        0.2%       NO
                                                                               PM         39            4    9,200      8,290      53.1     E       20        0.2%       NO
I-680      Yosemite Dr               to Montague Expwy               SB        AM         65            4    9,200      8,076      31.1     D       16        0.2%       NO
                                                                               PM         16            4    9,200      5,910      92.3     F       20        0.2%       NO
I-680      Montague Expwy            to Capitol Ave                  SB        AM         66            4    9,200      6,082      23.0     C       12        0.1%       NO
                                                                               PM         15            4    9,200      5,911      98.5     F       31        0.3%       NO


/a/ Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority Congestion Management Program Monitoring Study, 2006.




Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc.
1535 Landess Avenue Mixed Use Development                                                                                                                                  vii
Parkway north of Montague Expressway is approximately 375 feet, which provides enough storage for
about 15 vehicles per lane. Based on background condition traffic volumes, it was estimated that the 95th
percentile queue for the southbound left turn movement would be 29 vehicles per lane during the highest
peak hour (PM peak). The project would add 1 additional vehicle per lane to the queue. To mitigate this
impact, the project will need to pay the Montague Expressway Traffic Impact Fee. The fee amounts to
$903 per PM peak hour trip or approximately $161,637 and is applied to any project adding trips to
Montague Expressway.

Dempsey Road and Landess Avenue ­ Currently, the vehicle queues for the southbound left turn
movement at the intersection of Dempsey Road and Landess Avenue exceed the existing vehicle storage
capacity during the midday and PM peak hour. Vehicles that exceed the existing storage capacity spill out
of the left turn pocket and block southbound right turn vehicles. This action impedes the flow of vehicles
making a right turn at the intersection.

The estimated maximum vehicle queues for the southbound left turn movement at the intersection of
Dempsey Road and Landess Avenue would also exceed the existing vehicle storage capacity under
background and project conditions during the AM, midday, and PM peak hour. The southbound left turn
vehicle storage on Dempsey Road north of Landess Avenue is approximately 120 feet, which provides
enough storage for about 5 vehicles. Based on background condition traffic volumes, it was estimated that
the 95th percentile queue for the southbound left turn movement would be 9 vehicles (PM peak). The
project would add 3 additional vehicles to the queue per cycle during the PM peak hour. Currently,
vehicles making a southbound left turn on Dempsey Road at Landess Avenue exceed the existing storage
capacity, spill out of the left-turn pocket and block the southbound right turn movements. In addition,
during project conditions, vehicles attempting to exit from the project driveway towards Montague
Expressway may find the driveway blocked due to the southbound left turn queue from the Dempsey
Road and Landess Avenue intersection. To improve the Dempsey Road driveway operations and left-turn
operations at the Dempsey Road and Landess Avenue intersection, the project as an off-site condition of
approval should modify the existing median island on Dempsey Road between Landess Avenue and the
project driveway to remove the taper in the island which will extend the existing southbound left turn by
55 feet and allow the queue to extend into the existing two-way left turn lane on Dempsey Road west of
the project driveway without impacting the southbound right turn movements to Landess Avenue. In
addition, to prevent blockage of the project driveway, KEEP CLEAR and DO NO BLOCK
INTERSECTION signage should be installed in front of the project driveway to prevent blockage of
queues from the Dempsey Road and Landess Avenue intersection.

Park Victoria Drive and Landess Avenue ­ The estimated maximum vehicle queues for the eastbound left
turn movement at the intersection of Park Victoria Drive and Landess Avenue would exceed the existing
vehicle storage capacity under all conditions during all peak hours. The eastbound left turn vehicle
storage on Landess Avenue west of Park Victoria Drive is approximately 245 feet, which provides
enough storage for about 10 vehicles. Based on the background condition traffic volumes, it was
estimated that the 95th percentile queue for the eastbound left-turn movement would be 16 vehicles
during the highest peak hour (PM Peak). The project would add one additional vehicle to the queue per
cycle or 32 additional eastbound left-turn vehicles during the PM peak hour.

The estimated maximum vehicle queues for the northbound left turn movement at the intersection of Park
Victoria Drive and Landess Venue would exceed the existing vehicle storage capacity under all
conditions during all peak hours with the exception of existing conditions during the PM peak hour. The
northbound left turn vehicle storage on Park Victoria Drive south of Landess Avenue is approximately
195 feet, which provides enough storage for about 7 vehicles. Based on the background condition traffic
volumes, it was estimated that the 95th percentile queue for the northbound left-turn movement would be


Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc.
1535 Landess Avenue Mixed Use Development                                                             viii
18 vehicles during the highest peak hour (AM Peak). The project would add one additional vehicle to the
queue per cycle or 28 additional northbound left-turn vehicles during the AM peak hour.

To address the left-turn queue impacts generated by the project, the project should provide a fair-share
contribution towards the development of a Plan Line Study to be performed by the City of Milpitas for
the Dempsey Road, Landess Avenue, and Park Victoria Drive/Morrill Avenue corridors.


Site Access
This section describes the site access and circulation of the proposed project. This review is based on a
project site plan by LHA dated October 27, 2008.

Left turns Out. Left turns out of the project site can only be accommodated at the Dempsey Road
driveway. Field observations show that this driveway currently has little traffic during the peak hours but
it should be noted that with the project site currently being vacant that this would be expected. Staff from
the City of Milpitas noted previous field observations during the occupancy of the former site as a Home
Depot that the Dempsey Road driveway was very utilized regularly by the site. With the driveway
modifications previously discussed and median island modifications along Dempsey Road, left turn
access out the site at this driveway should be acceptable. During the peak hours, the project will add 92
AM left turn trips, 207 midday left turn trips, and 243 PM left turn trips. The following additional
scenarios were evaluated for access to the project area east of the project:

        No Left Turn Out at Dempsey Road Driveway. If the project restricted left turns out of the
        Dempsey Road driveway, vehicles heading to areas east of the project site could make a right turn
        on Dempsey Road and make a right on Mount Shasta Avenue. Vehicles heading west can utilize
        the driveways on Landess Avenue. However, it is unknown whether drivers will obey the
        driveway turning restriction. Furthermore, a no left turn out restriction will result in increased
        traffic volumes through the residential areas of Mount Shasta Avenue.

        Access to Park Victoria Drive. If the project could secure access to Park Victoria Drive, there is
        additional capacity on the north leg of the Park Victoria Drive/Landess Avenue intersection. This
        intersection is projected to operate at LOS D during the AM peak hour and LOS C during the
        remaining peak hours. The project applicant has explored potential access to Park Victoria Drive
        via adjacent properties to the east. However, the land acquisition costs were considered
        prohibitive.

        Signalize Dempsey Road Project Driveway. The Dempsey project driveway could be signalized
        and interconnected with the traffic signal at Dempsey Road/Landess Avenue. This would allow
        for more breaks in through traffic on Dempsey Road for left turn traffic from the project site.
        However, both traffic signals would likely need to operate on the same traffic signal cycle.
        Ideally, traffic signals should be at least 500 feet apart to minimize the disruption of vehicle
        arrivals and spill back at the adjacent intersections. The Dempsey Road driveway is only 225 feet
        from another signalized intersection and vehicle queues are projected to spill back and block the
        project driveway during peak hours. Therefore, even with an interconnected traffic signal, there
        would be some additional delay added to Dempsey Road traffic.




Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc.
1535 Landess Avenue Mixed Use Development                                                                   ix
1.
Introduction
This report presents the results of the traffic impact analysis conducted for the proposed 1535 Landess
Avenue mixed-use development in Milpitas, California. The project site is located in the northwest
quadrant of Park Victoria Drive and Landess Avenue. The project proposes to replace an existing 80,704
square-foot (s.f.) Home Depot home improvement store and related 14,279 s.f. garden center with a
mixed-use development consisting of a 35,000 s.f. grocery store, 12,532 s.f. of restaurants, a 13,155 s.f.
food court, 13,524 s.f. of retail and 11,412 s.f. of office space. Access to the site will be provided via two
existing driveways on Landess Avenue and one existing driveway on Dempsey Road. Parking would be
provided onsite. The project site and the surrounding study area are shown on Figure 1.


Scope of Study
This study was conducted for the purpose of identifying the potential transportation impacts related to the
proposed development. The impacts of the project were evaluated following the standards and
methodologies set forth by the City of Milpitas, City of San Jose, and the Santa Clara Valley
Transportation Authority (VTA). The VTA administers the county Congestion Management Program
(CMP). The traffic analysis is based on peak hour levels of service for the study intersections and freeway
segments. The traffic analysis also includes an evaluation of peak hour signal warrants for the
unsignalized study intersection. The study intersections are identified below.


Study Intersections

        Main Street and Great Mall Parkway
        Great Mall Drive/McCandless Drive and Great Mall Parkway
        Great Mall Parkway/Capitol Avenue and Montague Expressway*
        Milpitas Boulevard and Montague Expressway*
        Pecten Court and Montague Expressway
        Dempsey Road and Landess Avenue
        Park Victoria Drive/Morrill Avenue and Landess Avenue


Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc.
1535 Landess Avenue Mixed Use Development                                                                   1
        Clear Lake Avenue/Treewood Lane and Landess Avenue
        Yellowstone Avenue and Landess Avenue
        Park Victoria Drive and Yosemite Drive
        Park Victoria Drive and Mount Shasta Avenue (unsignalized)
        Park Victoria Drive and Big Basin Drive
        Morrill Avenue and Cropley Avenue (City of San Jose)

CMP intersections are denoted with an asterisk (*).


Study Freeway Segments

        I-680, between SR 237/Calaveras Boulevard and Yosemite Drive
        I-680, between Yosemite Drive and Montague Expressway
        I-680, between Montague Expressway and Capitol Avenue


Study Freeway Ramps

        I-680 Southbound on-ramp from Landess Avenue
        I-680 Northbound on-ramp from Landess Avenue
        I-680 Southbound off-ramp to Landess Avenue


In summary, the study includes an analysis of 12 signalized intersections, 1 unsignalized intersection, 3
directional freeway segments, and 3 freeway ramps in the vicinity of the project site. Peak hour signal
warrants were examined for the unsignalized intersection.

Traffic conditions at the study intersections were analyzed for the weekday AM and PM peak hours of
traffic. For selected intersections, a weekday midday peak hour analysis was also conducted. The AM
peak hour of traffic is generally between 7:00 and 9:00 AM, the midday peak hour is typically between
11:30 AM and 1:30 PM, and the PM peak hour is typically between 4:00 and 6:00 PM. It is during these
periods that the most congested traffic conditions occur on an average day. Traffic conditions were
evaluated for the following scenarios:

   Scenario 1:    Existing Conditions. Existing conditions were represented by existing peak hour traffic
                  volumes on the existing roadway network. Existing traffic volumes were obtained from
                  recent traffic counts and previous traffic studies.

   Scenario 2 : Background Conditions. Background conditions were represented by future background
                traffic volumes on the near-term future roadway network. Background traffic volumes
                were estimated by adding to existing peak hour volumes the projected volumes from
                approved but not yet completed developments. The latter components are contained in
                the City of Milpitas Approved Trips Inventory (ATI) and the City of San Jose ATI.

   Scenario 3 : Project Conditions. Project conditions were represented by future traffic volumes, with
                the project, on the near-term future roadway network. Future traffic volumes with the
                project (hereafter called project traffic volumes) were estimated by adding to
                background traffic volumes the additional traffic generated by the project. Project



Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc.
1535 Landess Avenue Mixed Use Development                                                                   3
                  conditions were evaluated relative to background conditions in order to determine
                  potential project impacts.

    Scenario 4:   Future Growth Conditions. Future growth conditions represent future traffic volumes
                  on the future transportation network at the time the proposed project is anticipated to be
                  complete. Traffic volumes under future growth conditions were estimated by applying
                  an annual growth factor of 3.7%, 3.1%, and 2.4% to existing AM, midday, and PM
                  traffic volumes, respectively. Background traffic and project trips are added to the
                  resulting volumes. The anticipated date of occupancy is November, 2009. This scenario
                  is evaluated in fulfillment of CMP guidelines.


Methodology
This section presents the methods used to determine the traffic conditions for each scenario described
above. It includes descriptions of the data requirements, the analysis methodologies, and the applicable
level of service standards.


Data Requirements

The data required for the analysis were obtained from new traffic counts, previous traffic studies, the City
of Milpitas, the City of San Jose and the CMP annual Monitoring Report. The following data were
collected from these sources:

·   existing traffic volumes
·   lane configurations
·   signal timing and phasing (for signalized intersections only)
·   approved trips inventory for Milpitas
·   approved trips inventory for San Jose
·   future growth factor


Analysis Methodologies

Traffic conditions at the study locations were evaluated using level of service (LOS). Level of Service is a
qualitative description of operating conditions ranging from LOS A, or free-flow conditions with little or
no delay, to LOS F, or jammed conditions with excessive delays.

Intersections

The City of Milpitas, City of San Jose, and CMP level of service methodologies utilize TRAFFIX
software using CMP default settings. TRAFFIX is based on the 2000 Highway Capacity Manual (HCM)
method for intersections, and evaluates intersection operations on the basis of average delay for all
vehicles at the intersection. This average delay can then be correlated to a level of service as shown in
Table 1 for signalized intersections. The level of service correlation for unsignalized intersections is
shown in Table 2. For two way stop controlled intersections, the level of service reported in the LOS
tables represents the average delay of all intersection movements, controlled and uncontrolled.




Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc.
1535 Landess Avenue Mixed Use Development                                                                  4
Table 1
Signalized Intersection Level of Service Definitions Based on Delay

                                                                                                    Average
                                                                                                 Control Delay
  Level of                                                                                        Per Vehicle
  Service                                        Description                                       (seconds)

     A        Operations with very low delay occurring with favorable progression                 10.0 or less
              and/or short cycle lengths.
     B        Operations with low delay occurring with good progression and/or                    10.1 to 20.0
              short cycle lengths.
     C        Operations with average delays resulting from fair progression                      20.1 to 35.0
              and/or longer cycle lengths. Individual cycle failures begin to
              appear.
     D        Operations with longer delays due to a combination of unfavorable                   35.1 to 55.0
              progression, long cycle lengths, or high V/C ratios. Many vehicles
              stop and individual cycle failures are noticeable.
     E        Operations with high delay values indicating poor progression, long                 55.1 to 80.0
              cycle lengths, and high V/C ratios. Individual cycle failures are
               frequent occurrences. This is considered to be the limit of
              acceptable delay.
      F       Operation with delays unacceptable to most drivers occurring due                 Greater than 80.0
              to oversaturation, poor progression, or very long cycle lengths.

Source: Transportation Research Board, Highway Capacity Manual 2000, Exhibit 16-2.




Table 2
Unsignalized Intersection Level of Service Definitions Based on Delay

          Level of                                                                    Average Delay
          Service                     Description of Operations                      Per Vehicle (Sec.)

             A                         Little or no traffic delay                      10.0 or less
             B                           Short traffic delays                          10.1 to 15.0

             C                          Average traffic delays                         15.1 to 25.0
             D                           Long traffic delays                           25.1 to 35.0
             E                         Very long traffic delays                        35.1 to 50.0
             F                          Extreme traffic delays                       Greater than 50.0

Source: Transportation Research Board, 2000 Highway Capacity Manual (Washington, D.C., 2000) p17-2.




Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc.
1535 Landess Avenue Mixed Use Development                                                                          5
In addition to the level of service evaluation, for unsignalized intersections an assessment is made of the
need for signalization of the intersection. This assessment is made on the basis of the Peak hour Volume
Signal Warrant, Warrant #11 described in the Caltrans Traffic Manual. This method makes no evaluation
of intersection level of service, but simply provides an indication whether peak hour traffic volumes are,
or would be, sufficient to justify installation of a traffic signal.

Freeway Segments

As prescribed in the CMP technical guidelines, the level of service for freeway segments is estimated
based on vehicle density. Density is calculated by the following formula:

                   D = V / (N*S)

        where:
                   D= density, in vehicles per mile per lane (vpmpl)
                   V= peak hour volume, in vehicles per hour (vph)
                   N= number of travel lanes
                   S= average travel speed, in miles per hour (mph)

The vehicle density on a segment is correlated to level of service as shown in Table 3. The CMP requires
that mixed-flow lanes and auxiliary lanes be analyzed separately from HOV (carpool) lanes. The CMP
specifies that a capacity of 2,300 vehicles per hour per lane (vphpl) be used for segments three lanes or
wider in one direction and a capacity of 2,200 vphpl be used for segments two lanes wide in one
direction.

Table 3
Freeway Segment Level of Service Based on Density

 Level of                                                                                             Density
 Service                                       Description                                      (vehicles/mile/lane)

    A       Average operating speeds at the free-flow speed generally prevail. Vehicles                0-11
            are almost completely unimpeded in their ability to maneuver within the traffic
            stream.
    B       Speeds at the free-flow speed are generally maintained. The ability to                    >11-18
            maneuver within the traffic stream is only slightly restricted, and the general
            level of physical and psychological comfort provided to drivers is still high.
    C       Speeds at or near the free-flow speed of the freeway prevail. Freedom to                  >18-26
            maneuver within the traffic stream is noticeably restricted, and lane changes
            require more vigilance on the part of the driver.
    D       Speeds begin to decline slightly with increased flows at this level. Freedom to           >26-46
            maneuver within the traffic stream is more noticeably limited, and the driver
            experiences reduced physical and psychological comfort levels.
    E       At this level, the freeway operates at or near capacity. Operations in this level         >46-58
            are volatile, because there are virtually no usable gaps in the traffic stream,
            leaving little room to maneuver within the traffic stream.
    F       Vehicular flow breakdowns occurs. Large queues form behind breakdown                        >58
            points.

Source: VTA CMP Traffic Level of Service Analysis Guidelines , June 2003.



Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc.
1535 Landess Avenue Mixed Use Development                                                                         6
Freeway Ramps

A freeway ramp analysis was performed in order to verify that the freeway ramps would have sufficient
capacity to serve the expected traffic volumes with and without the project. This analysis consisted of a
volume-to-capacity ratio evaluation of the freeway ramps at the selected interchanges. The ramp
capacities were obtained from the Highway Capacity Manual 2000, and consider both the free-flow speed
and the number of lanes at each ramp.


Level of Service Standards

For CMP intersections, roadway segments, and freeway segments, the minimum acceptable level of
service is LOS E. At intersections and roadway segments in the City of Milpitas and City of San Jose that
are not CMP intersections, the minimum acceptable level of service is LOS D.


Report Organization
The remainder of this report is divided into five chapters. Chapter 2 describes existing conditions in terms
of the existing roadway network, transit service, and existing bicycle and pedestrian facilities. Chapter 3
presents roadway operations under background conditions. Chapter 4 describes the method used to
estimate project traffic, and its impact on the transportation system. Chapter 5 discusses other
transportation impacts such as unsignalized intersections, left turn pocket analysis, site access, and site
circulation. Chapter 6 presents the traffic conditions under future growth conditions.




Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc.
1535 Landess Avenue Mixed Use Development                                                                7
2.
Existing Conditions

This chapter describes the existing conditions for all the major transportation facilities in the vicinity of
the site, including the roadway network, transit service, and bicycle and pedestrian facilities.


Existing Roadway Network
Regional access to the project site is provided via I-680. This facility is described below.

I-680 is a north/south freeway traversing the eastern portion of Milpitas. This freeway connects the inland
East Bay communities to the north with San Jose to the south. I-680 has eight mixed flow lanes in the
vicinity of the project.

Local access to the site is provided by Montague Expressway, Landess Avenue, Park Victoria Drive,
Morrill Avenue, and Dempsey Road. These roadways are described below.

Montague Expressway is generally an east-west expressway that begins at US 101 and extends northward
to Lafayette Street and then northeastward to Milpitas where it transitions into Landess Avenue at I-680.
Full interchanges are located at I-680, I-880, and US 101. In the vicinity of the project site, Montague
Expressway is a six-lane roadway. Montague Expressway features carpool lanes (also known as high-
occupancy vehicle (HOV) lanes) throughout the City of Milpitas. Montague Expressway transitions to
Landess Avenue at I-680.

Landess Avenue is an east-west roadway that begins at Piedmont Road and extends westward to I-680
where it transitions into Montague Expressway. A full interchange is located at I-680. In the vicinity of
the project site, Landess Avenue is a four-lane roadway divided by a median. Landess Avenue provides
direct access to the project site.

Park Victoria Drive is a north-south roadway that begins at the northern border of Milpitas and extends
southward where it transitions into Morrill Avenue at Landess Avenue. In the vicinity of the project site,


Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc.
1535 Landess Avenue Mixed Use Development                                                                       8
Park Victoria Drive is a four-lane roadway. Park Victoria Drive provides access to the project site via
Landess Avenue.

Morrill Avenue is a north-south roadway that begins at Landess Avenue in the north and extends
southward to Berryessa Road. In the vicinity of the project site, Morrill Avenue is a four-lane roadway.
Morrill Avenue provides access to the project site via Landess Avenue.

Dempsey Road is a north-south roadway that begins at Park Victoria Drive in the north and extends
southward to Landess Avenue. In the vicinity of the project site, Dempsey Road is a two-lane roadway.
Dempsey Road provides direct access to the project site.


Existing Bicycle and Pedestrian Facilities
According to the City of Milpitas Bikeway Master Plan and the Valley Transportation Agency (VTA)
Santa Clara Valley Bikeways Map, there are several city- and county-designated bikeways within the
vicinity of the project site.

    Main Street has Class II bicycle lanes from Calaveras Boulevard in the north to Montague
    Expressway in the south.

    Abel Street has Class II bicycle lanes from Corning Avenue in the north to Great Mall Parkway in the
    south.

    Milpitas Boulevard has Class II bicycle lanes from the County line in the north to Yosemite Drive in
    the south.

    McCandless Drive has Class II bicycle lanes from Great Mall Parkway in the north to Montague
    Expressway in the south.

    Tasman Drive/Great Mall Parkway/Capitol Avenue has Class II bicycle lanes from the western city
    limits to the southern city limits.

    Park Victoria Drive has Class II bicycle lanes from Calaveras Boulevard in the north to Yosemite
    Drive in the south.

    Yosemite Drive has Class II bicycle lanes from Milpitas Boulevard in the west to I-680 the east.
    Yosemite Drive has Class III bicycle routes from I-680 in the west to Piedmont Road in the east.

    Landess Avenue has Class III bicycle routes from I-680 southbound ramps in the west to Piedmont
    Road in the east.

Bicycle facilities are shown on Figure 2. Sidewalks are found along virtually all the commercial streets
and collectors near the site.


Existing Transit Service
Existing transit service to the study area is provided by the VTA. The existing VTA service is described
below and shown on Figure 3.


Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc.
1535 Landess Avenue Mixed Use Development                                                                  9
VTA Bus Service

The 46 line provides service between the Great Mall of the Bay Area and northern Milpitas via Montague
Expressway, Landess Avenue, Park Victoria Drive and Jacklin Road, with 30-minute headways during
commute hours.

The 47 line provides service between the Great Mall of the Bay Area and northern Milpitas via Montague
Expressway, Park Victoria Drive, Calaveras Boulevard and Escuela Parkway, with 30-minute headways
during commute hours.

The 66 line provides service between South San Jose and northern Milpitas via King Road, Lundy
Avenue, Montague Expressway and Great Mall Parkway, with 15 to 30-minute headways during
commute hours.

The 70 line provides service between the Capitol LRT Station and the Great Mall of the Bay Area via
Capitol Expressway, Jackson Avenue and Montague Expressway, with 15-minute headways during
commute hours.

The 71 line provides service between the Eastridge Transit Center and the Great Mall of the Bay Area via
White Road and Montague Expressway, with 15 to 30-minute headways during commute hours.

The 104 line is an express route that provides service between the Penitencia Creek Transit Center and
Palo Alto via SR 237, Abel Street and Montague Expressway, with 30 to 45-minute headways during
commute hours.


VTA Light Rail Transit (LRT) Service

There are five Capitol Corridor LRT stations located within approximately two miles of the project site.
The Capitol Corridor LRT provides service on 15-minute headways during commute and midday hours. It
provides service between South San Jose and the Alum Rock area of San Jose. The closest station to the
project site is located at Montague Expressway.


Existing Intersection Lane Configurations & Traffic Volumes
The existing lane configurations at the study intersections were determined by observations in the field.
The existing intersection lane configurations are shown on Figure 4. Existing peak hour traffic volumes
were obtained from previous traffic reports and supplemented with manual turning-movement counts at
intersections where counts were either unavailable or outdated (more than two years old). The existing
peak hour intersection volumes are shown on Figure 5. The traffic count data are included in Appendix A.

Montague Expressway, a major arterial, features high-occupancy vehicle (HOV) lanes throughout the
project study area. The HOV lane designation is in effect in the westbound direction during the AM peak
hour and in the eastbound direction during PM peak commute hour. During other times, the lane is open
to all users.




Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc.
1535 Landess Avenue Mixed Use Development                                                                12
Existing Intersection Analysis
The level of service results for the signalized and unsignalized intersections under existing conditions are
summarized in Table 4. The results show that, measured against the City of Milpitas, City of San Jose,
and CMP level of service standards, all of the study intersections currently operate at acceptable levels.
The level of service calculation sheets are included in Appendix D.


Existing Freeway Ramp Capacity Analysis
This analysis consisted of a volume-to-capacity ratio evaluation of selected freeway ramps at the
Montague Expressway/Landess Avenue interchange with I-680. The ramp capacities were obtained from
the Highway Capacity Manual 2000 (see Chapter 25), which consider both the free-flow speed and the
number of lanes of each study ramp. The existing freeway ramp volumes were obtained from new traffic
counts.

The ramp analysis showed that each of the ramps analyzed currently has sufficient capacity to serve the
existing traffic volumes. All of the study ramps have volume-to-capacity (V/C) ratios less than 1.0, which
means that the existing traffic demand does not exceed the existing ramp capacity (see Table 5).


Existing Freeway Levels of Service
Traffic volumes for the study freeway segments were obtained from the 2006 CMP Annual Monitoring
Report. The results of the analysis are summarized in Table 6. The results show that the following study
freeway segments currently operate at LOS F in at least one direction during at least one peak hour:

        I-680, southbound between Yosemite Drive and Montague Expressway ­ PM peak hour
        I-680, southbound between Montague Expressway and Capitol Avenue ­ PM peak hour


Observed Existing Traffic Conditions
Traffic conditions in the field were observed in order to identify existing operational deficiencies and to
confirm the accuracy of calculated levels of service. The purpose of this effort was (1) to identify any
existing traffic problems that may not be directly related to level of service, and (2) to identify any
locations where the level of service analysis does not accurately reflect existing traffic conditions.

Overall the study intersections operated adequately during the AM, midday, and PM peak hours of traffic.
The level of service analysis appears to accurately reflect actual existing traffic conditions. However, field
observations revealed that some operational problems do occur.

Great Mall Parkway/Capitol Avenue and Montague Expressway ­ During PM peak hours, the
southbound left turn queue on Great Mall Parkway fills the turn pocket and spills over into the adjacent
through lane. Eastbound traffic flow on Montague Expressway is heavy.




Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc.
1535 Landess Avenue Mixed Use Development                                                                 15
Table 4
Existing Intersection Levels of Service

                                                           Peak    Count     Avg.
Intersection                                               Hour    Date      Delay   LOS

Main Street & Great Mall Parkway                           AM     10/18/07   20.7    C
                                                           PM     10/18/07   26.8    C
Great Mall Drive/McCandless Drive & Great Mall Parkway     AM     10/08/08   15.2    B
                                                           PM     10/08/08   20.3    C
Great Mall Parkway/Capitol Avenue & Montague Expressway*   AM     09/04/07   37.8    D
                                                           MD     10/09/08   50.1    D
                                                           PM     10/10/06   56.2    E
Milpitas Boulevard & Montague Expressway*                  AM     08/06/08   25.5    C
                                                           MD     10/09/08   31.9    C
                                                           PM     10/10/06   39.6    D
Pecten Court & Montague Expressway                         AM     10/08/08   15.7     B
                                                           PM     10/08/08   17.4     B
Dempsey Road & Landess Avenue                              AM     10/07/08   36.2    D
                                                           MD     10/09/08   23.1    C
                                                           PM     10/07/08   24.9    C
Park Victoria Drive & Landess Avenue                       AM     10/09/08   38.8    D
                                                           MD     10/09/08   31.2    C
                                                           PM     10/09/08   30.8    C
Clear Lake Avenue/Treewood Lane & Landess Avenue           AM     10/09/08   14.2     B
                                                           MD     10/09/08   16.7     B
                                                           PM     10/09/08   11.4     B
Yellowstone Avenue/Corktree Lane & Landess Avenue          AM     10/09/08   24.9    C
                                                           PM     10/09/08   18.9    B
Park Victoria Drive & Yosemite Drive                       AM     10/08/08   30.5    C
                                                           PM     10/08/08   29.9    C
Park Victoria Drive & Mount Shasta Avenue (unsignalized)   AM     10/07/08    1.2     A
                                                           PM     10/21/08    1.5     A
Park Victoria Drive & Big Basin Drive                      AM     10/07/08    9.7     A
                                                           MD     10/09/08   11.4     B
                                                           PM     10/07/08   11.9     B
Morrill Avenue & Cropley Avenue                            AM     10/09/08   30.1    C
                                                           PM     10/09/08   26.0    C


* Denotes CMP intersection




Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc.
1535 Landess Avenue Mixed Use Development                                                  16
Table 5
Existing Freeway Ramp Capacity Analysis

                                                                       Peak            Capacity                   Existing
Freeway Ramps                                                          Hour            (vph) /a/          Volume /b/ V/C Ratio /c/

I-680 at Montague Expressway/Landess Avenue

SB on-ramp from WB Landess Avenue to I-680                             AM                 1900                   600                  0.32
                                                                      Midday              1900                   392                  0.21
                                                                       PM                 1900                   700                  0.37

NB on-ramp from WB Landess Avenue to I-680                             AM                 1900                   344                  0.18
                                                                      Midday              1900                   208                  0.11
                                                                       PM                 1900                   220                  0.12

SB off-ramp from I-680 to EB Landess Avenue                            AM                 1900                   136                  0.07
                                                                      Midday              1900                   228                  0.12
                                                                       PM                 1900                   340                  0.18



/a/ Capacities obtained from the 2000 Highway Capacity Manual, which are based on the travel speed on
     the ramp for single-lane ramps.
/b/ Volumes obtained from new manual turning movement counts.
/c/ Volume-to-capacity ratio.




Table 6
Existing Freeway Levels of Service

                                                                                                                Existing Trips /a/
                                                                               Peak        Ave.          # of
Freeway    Segment                                                Direction    Hour       Speed         Lanes       Volume       Density     LOS

I-680      Capitol Ave               to Montague Expwy               NB         AM          57           4           8,890           39.0    D
                                                                                PM          66           4           5,810           22.0    C
I-680      Montague Expwy            to Yosemite Dr                  NB         AM          65           4           7,800           30.0    D
                                                                                PM          66           4           7,390           28.0    D
I-680      Yosemite Dr               to Calaveras Blvd / SR 237      NB         AM          45           4           8,640           54.9     E
                                                                                PM          50           4           8,800           50.3     E
I-680      Calaveras Blvd / SR 237   to Yosemite Dr                  SB         AM          66           4           6,600           25.0    C
                                                                                PM          39           4           8,270           53.0    E
I-680      Yosemite Dr               to Montague Expwy               SB         AM          65           4           8,060           31.0    D
                                                                                PM          16           4           5,890           92.0    F
I-680      Montague Expwy            to Capitol Ave                  SB         AM          66           4           6,070           23.0    C
                                                                                PM          15           4           5,880           98.0    F


/a/ Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority Congestion Management Program Monitoring Study, 2006.




Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc.
1535 Landess Avenue Mixed Use Development                                                                                                         17
Milpitas Boulevard and Montague Expressway ­ During AM peak hours, heavy westbound traffic flows
result in queues that spill back to I-680. Occasionally, westbound traffic queues are unable to clear the
intersection in one signal cycle. During PM peak hours, heavy eastbound traffic flows from the I-
680/Montague Expressway interchange queue past Milpitas Boulevard in the right most lanes.

Pecten Court and Montague Expressway ­ This intersection operates similarly to the intersection of
Milpitas Boulevard and Montague Expressway, approximately 800 feet to the west. In addition, the
vehicles in the westbound right most lanes on Montague Expressway at Pecten Court sometimes spill
back onto the southbound off-ramp at the I-680/Montague Expressway interchange during the AM peak
hour.

Dempsey Road and Landess Avenue ­ The intersection currently operates adequately during the AM,
midday, and PM peak hours. However, the intersection experienced regular operational impacts prior to
the closing of the Home Depot at the proposed project site during AM and weekend peak hours. The
proposed site is currently vacant and adds a minimal amount of traffic to the Dempsey Road and Landess
Avenue intersection.

Park Victoria Drive and Landess Avenue ­ During AM peak hours, the northbound left turning
movement occasionally spills out of the turn pocket between 3 and 6 vehicles. During PM peak hours,
heavy westbound traffic occasionally blocks several driveways to the shopping center at the northeastern
corner of Park Victoria Drive and Landess Avenue.

It should be noted that Montague Expressway is a regional arterial that provides a link between the major
interstate highways I-880 and I-680. As expected, heavy traffic volumes were observed on Montague
Expressway during commute hours. Intersections along Montague Expressway operated adequately
considering the high traffic volumes.




Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc.
1535 Landess Avenue Mixed Use Development                                                              18
3.
Background Conditions

This chapter describes background traffic conditions. Background conditions are defined as conditions
just prior to completion of the proposed development. Traffic volumes for background conditions
comprise volumes from existing traffic counts plus traffic generated by other approved developments in
the vicinity of the site. This chapter describes the procedure used to determine background traffic volumes
and the resulting traffic conditions.


Background Transportation Network & Traffic Volumes
It is assumed in this analysis that the future near-term roadway network under background conditions
would be the same as the existing roadway network. Bicycle, transit, and pedestrian facilities under
background conditions were assumed to remain unchanged from existing conditions.

Background peak hour traffic volumes were calculated by adding to existing volumes the estimated traffic
from approved but not yet constructed developments. The added traffic from approved but not yet
constructed developments was provided by Milpitas and San Jose in the form of the Approved Trips
Inventory (ATI). The estimated ATI for the midday peak hour was based on the existing relationship
between recent AM peak hour, PM peak hour and midday peak hour counts. To account for the existing
vacant home improvement store on the project site, traffic that previously would have been generated by
full occupancy of the building was estimated by multiplying the applicable San Diego Association of
Governments (SANDAG) trip generation rates by the amount of home improvement store space. The
estimated trips were assigned to the surrounding roadway network according to the existing travel
patterns in the project area and the locations of complementary land uses. Thus, background peak hour
traffic volumes were estimated by adding to existing peak hour volumes the peak hour volumes due to
approved but not yet constructed developments in the area and the estimated home improvement store
trips based on full occupancy. Background traffic volumes are shown on Figure 6. A full description of
the ATI are included in Appendix B.




Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc.
1535 Landess Avenue Mixed Use Development                                                              19
Background Intersection Analysis
The results of the intersection level of service analysis under background conditions are summarized in
Table 7. The results show that the all of study intersections would operate at an acceptable LOS. The level
of service calculation sheets are included in Appendix D.

Table 7
Background Intersection Levels of Service

                                                                           Existing       Background
                                                                Peak    Avg.             Avg.
Intersection                                                    Hour    Delay     LOS    Delay   LOS

Main Street & Great Mall Parkway                                 AM      20.7     C       24.9     C
                                                                 PM      26.8     C       30.8     C
Great Mall Drive/McCandless Drive & Great Mall Parkway           AM      15.2     B       15.5     B
                                                                 PM      20.3     C       20.2     C
Great Mall Parkway/Capitol Avenue & Montague Expressway*         AM      37.8     D       43.5     D
                                                                 MD      50.1     D       55.8     E
                                                                 PM      56.2     E       61.6     E
Milpitas Boulevard & Montague Expressway*                        AM      25.5     C       25.2     C
                                                                 MD      31.9     C       30.6     C
                                                                 PM      39.6     D       41.3     D
Pecten Court & Montague Expressway                               AM      15.7     B       16.8     B
                                                                 PM      17.4     B       16.6     B
Dempsey Road & Landess Avenue                                    AM      36.2     D       40.1     D
                                                                 MD      23.1     C       26.1     C
                                                                 PM      24.9     C       27.7     C
Park Victoria Drive & Landess Avenue                             AM      38.8     D       41.2     D
                                                                 MD      31.2     C       32.0     C
                                                                 PM      30.8     C       31.3     C
Clear Lake Avenue/Treewood Lane & Landess Avenue                 AM      14.2     B       14.1     B
                                                                 MD      16.7     B       16.6     B
                                                                 PM      11.4     B       11.4     B
Yellowstone Avenue/Corktree Lane & Landess Avenue                AM      24.9     C       24.9     C
                                                                 PM      18.9     B       19.0     B
Park Victoria Drive & Yosemite Drive                             AM      30.5     C       30.5     C
                                                                 PM      29.9     C       30.0     C
Park Victoria Drive & Mount Shasta Avenue (unsignalized)         AM       1.2     A       1.2      A
                                                                 PM       1.5     A       1.6      A
Park Victoria Drive & Big Basin Drive                            AM       9.7     A       9.7      A
                                                                 MD      11.4     B       11.2     B
                                                                 PM      11.9     B       11.8     B
Morrill Avenue & Cropley Avenue                                  AM      30.1     C       30.3     C
                                                                 PM      26.0     C       26.0     C

* Denotes CMP intersection



Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc.
1535 Landess Avenue Mixed Use Development                                                               21
                                                                      Traffic Data Service
                                                                                  Campbell, CA
                                                                                     (408) 377-2988
                                                                                     tdsbay@cs.com                                                   File Name            : 17AM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                     Site Code            : 00000017
                                                                                                                                                     Start Date           : 10/18/2007
                                                                                                                                                     Page No              :1


                                                                        Groups Printed- Vehicles
                           MAIN ST                          GREAT MALL PKWY                       MAIN ST                                            GREAT MALL PKWY
                          Southbound                             Westbound                       Northbound                                                Eastbound
  Start Time Right     Thru Left Peds        App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                          App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total               Int. Total
      Factor  1.0       1.0 1.0 1.0                      1.0 1.0    1.0  1.0             1.0   1.0 1.0 1.0                                        1.0   1.0 1.0     1.0
  06:30 AM     16         9    11    2            38      16 128      5    0    149        3     7    1     0                               11      1   25      5     0     31                    229
  06:45 AM     12       16     16    2            46      20 176      5    0    201        4     6    0     5                               15      1   34     10     0     45                    307
        Total  28       25     27    4             84     36 304     10    0    350        7   13     1     5                              26       2   59     15     0     76                    536

  07:00 AM       28     18     11       1        58        20      224      7         1      252           3     10      0      2         15           1     38      5       0        44         369
  07:15 AM       21     18     19       1        59        28      211     14         1      254          10     12      0     10         32           0     36     15       0        51         396
  07:30 AM       57     30     14       2       103        25      280     15         1      321          15     16      1      4         36           0     55     17       1        73         533
  07:45 AM       52     36     41       1       130        47      319     15         3      384          18     15      3      3         39           1     63     15       0        79         632
      Total     158    102     85       5       350       120      1034    51         6     1211          46     53      4     19        122           2    192     52       1       247        1930

  08:00 AM       52     44     47       1       144        46      366     17         3      432          16     20      0       5        41           1     58     10       2        71         688
  08:15 AM       55     54     38       2       149        38      457     27         0      522          15     19      0       2        36           0     43     14       0        57         764
  08:30 AM       70     82     33       2       187        40      460     23         0      523          15     31      0       0        46           1     45     14       0        60         816
  08:45 AM       70     68     53       3       194        36      381     20         0      437          16     61      0       0        77           0     45     16       0        61         769
      Total     247    248    171       8       674       160      1664    87         3     1914          62    131      0       7       200           2    191     54       2       249        3037

  09:00 AM    51        54     34      0       139         38 368          15        0       421           8     25      2      0         35          2      60   23        0         85         680
  09:15 AM    60        39     18      2       119         41 318            7       0       366         15      32      0      0         47          0      53   22        0         75         607
 Grand Total 544       468    335    19       1366        395 3688        170        9      4262        138     254      7    31         430          8     555 166         3        732        6790
  Apprch % 39.8        34.3   24.5   1.4                   9.3 86.5          4     0.2                  32.1    59.1   1.6    7.2                   1.1     75.8 22.7     0.4
    Total %    8        6.9    4.9   0.3       20.1        5.8 54.3        2.5     0.1       62.8          2     3.7   0.1    0.5         6.3       0.1      8.2 2.4        0       10.8




                          MAIN ST                             GREAT MALL PKWY                                      MAIN ST                             GREAT MALL PKWY
                         Southbound                               Westbound                                       Northbound                               Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru        Left Peds      App. Total   Right    Thru   Left Peds        App. Total   Right   Thru   Left Peds      App. Total   Right    Thru   Left Peds      App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 06:30 AM to 09:15 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
  08:00 AM      52      44      47     1      144    46 366                17         3      432          16     20      0       5        41           1     58     10       2        71         688
  08:15 AM      55      54      38     2      149    38 457                27         0      522          15     19      0       2        36           0     43     14       0        57         764
  08:30 AM      70      82      33     2      187    40 460                23         0      523          15     31      0       0        46           1     45     14       0        60         816
  08:45 AM      70      68      53     3      194    36 381                20         0      437          16     61      0       0        77           0     45     16       0        61         769
 Total Volume  247 248 171             8      674 160 1664                 87         3     1914          62    131      0       7       200           2    191     54       2       249        3037
 % App. Total   36.6   36.8   25.4     1.2                   8.4   86.9     4.5      0.2                   31   65.5      0     3.5                   0.8   76.7   21.7     0.8
        PHF     .882   .756   .807   .667        .869      .870    .904   .806     .250        .915      .969   .537   .000   .350        .649      .500    .823   .844   .250        .877        .930
                                                                     Traffic Data Service
                                                                                 Campbell, CA
                                                                                    (408) 377-2988
                                                                                    tdsbay@cs.com                                                    File Name             : 17PM FINAL
                                                                                                                                                     Site Code             : 00000017
                                                                                                                                                     Start Date            : 10/18/2007
                                                                                                                                                     Page No               :1


                                                                          Groups Printed- Vehicles
                           MAIN ST                            GREAT MALL PKWY                       MAIN ST                                            GREAT MALL PKWY
                          Southbound                               Westbound                       Northbound                                                Eastbound
  Start Time Right     Thru Left Peds        App. Total   Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds                        App. Total   Right Thru Left Peds App. Total              Int. Total
      Factor   1.0      1.0 1.0 1.0                         1.0 1.0   1.0  1.0             1.0   1.0 1.0 1.0                                        1.0   1.0 1.0     1.0
  04:00 PM     27       38     45    3          113         53 139     23    0    215       20   22     2     2                           46          0 221      39     0  260                    634
  04:15 PM     33       29     50    3          115         51 125     13    3    192       23   51     2     4                           80          5 211      49     0  265                    652
  04:30 PM     35       34     56    0          125         54 129     15    0    198        7   36     3     7                           53          3 242      55     1  301                    677
  04:45 PM     36       28     47    1          112         62 124     17    0    203       18   42     1     3                           64          1 247      76     0  324                    703
        Total 131      129 198       7          465        220 517     68    3    808       68 151      8   16                           243          9 921 219         1 1150                   2666

  05:00 PM       44     52     60       0       156        78     134     17         2       231         24     40       2      4         70           0    373      61       1      435          892
  05:15 PM       39     36     65       2       142        92     153     36         0       281         11     44       1      2         58           1    378      68       0      447          928
  05:30 PM       37     34     70       3       144        75     131     19         1       226         13     52       1      5         71           1    398      68       1      468          909
  05:45 PM       37     39     78       4       158        57     125     14         1       197         14     55       0      3         72           1    404      66       0      471          898
      Total     157    161    273       9       600       302     543     86         4       935         62    191       4     14        271           3    1553    263       2     1821         3627

  06:00 PM       35     33     63     10        141        77     139     20         2       238         12     46       1       4        63           0    428      80       1      509          951
  06:15 PM       47     18     54      2        121        85     135     17         0       237         12     62       0       2        76           2    326      58       0      386          820
  06:30 PM       46     25     53      0        124        67     126     15         1       209          8     33       0       2        43           0    311      80       1      392          768
  06:45 PM       40     30     64      1        135        61     112     16         0       189         13     39       2       0        54           0    267      67       0      334          712
      Total     168    106    234     13        521       290     512     68         3       873         45    180       3       8       236           2    1332    285       2     1621         3251

           456
 Grand Total           396    705    29       1586        812 1572       222      10       2616        175     522    15      38         750        14      3806 767         5      4592         9544
  Apprch % 28.8         25    44.5   1.8                   31 60.1        8.5     0.4                  23.3    69.6     2     5.1                   0.3     82.9 16.7      0.1
   Total % 4.8          4.1    7.4   0.3       16.6        8.5 16.5       2.3     0.1       27.4        1.8     5.5   0.2     0.4         7.9       0.1     39.9    8      0.1       48.1




                          MAIN ST                             GREAT MALL PKWY                                     MAIN ST                              GREAT MALL PKWY
                         Southbound                               Westbound                                      Northbound                                Eastbound
 Start Time Right Thru        Left Peds      App. Total   Right   Thru   Left Peds        App. Total   Right   Thru   Left Peds       App. Total   Right    Thru    Left Peds      App. Total   Int. Total

Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 06:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 05:15 PM
  05:15 PM      39      36      65     2      142    92 153               36         0       281         11     44       1      2         58           1    378      68       0      447          928
  05:30 PM      37      34      70     3      144    75 131               19         1       226         13     52       1      5         71           1    398      68       1      468          909
  05:45 PM      37      39      78     4      158    57 125               14         1       197         14     55       0      3         72           1    404      66       0      471          898
  06:00 PM      35      33      63    10      141    77 139               20         2       238         12     46       1      4         63           0    428      80       1      509          951
 Total Volume  148 142 276            19      585 301 548                 89         4       942         50    197       3     14        264           3    1608    282       2     1895         3686
 % App. Total   25.3   24.3   47.2     3.2                   32   58.2     9.4      0.4                 18.9   74.6     1.1     5.3                   0.2    84.9   14.9     0.1
        PHF     .949   .910   .885   .475        .926      .818   .895   .618     .500        .838      .893   .895   .750    .700        .917      .750     .939   .881   .500        .931        .969
