Johnson Rancho and
Hop Farm Annexation

      SCH# 2008082127

 Draft Environmental
    Impact Report
Volume II Appendices A-N
               PREPARED FOR
         THE CITY OF WHEATLAND




                JUNE 2011


                PREPARED BY




   1501 Sports Drive, Sacramento, CA 95834
JOHNSON RANCHO AND HOP FARM ANNEXATION DEIR APPENDICES

VOLUME II A-N

A    Notice of Preparation
B    Comments on the Notice of Preparation
C    Initial Study and Environmental Checklist
D    Traffic Impact Analysis for the Johnson Rancho and Hop Farm Annexation Project
E    URBEMIS-2007 Air Quality Modeling Outputs
F    Environmental Noise Analysis
G    Biological Baseline Information Report, Johnson Rancho and Hop Farm
H    Biological Resources Assessment, ± 1,191-Acre Wheatland Ranch
I    Special-Status Species Assessment for Johnson's Crossing
J    Special-Status Species Assessment for Browne Cattle Company
K    Special-Status Plant Survey for Browne Cattle Company
L    Special-Status Plant Survey for Johnson's Crossing
M    Wetland Delineation for Browne Cattle Company
N    Cultural Resources Sensitivity Report for the Annexation of the Johnson Ranch, Bear
     River Hop Farm, and Dave Browne Properties Development

VOLUME III O-X

O    Preliminary Geotechnical Engineering Report, Johnson's Crossing
P    Preliminary Geotechnical Report, Bear River Hop Farm Residential Development
Q    Environmental Site Assessment, Johnson's Crossing Property
R    Johnson Rancho and Hop Farm Annexation Project, Master Drainage Study
S    Background, Constraints and Opportunities Analysis for Drainage
T    Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs)
U    Water Supply Assessment, Johnson Rancho and Hop Farm Properties
V    Wheatland General Plan Update Water Master Plan
W    Wheatland General Plan Update Sewer Collection System Master Plan
X    City of Wheatland Proposed Annexation of Johnson Rancho and Hop Farm Properties
     EIR ­ Wastewater Treatment/Disposal Assessment
APPENDIX A
                           City of Wheatland
        INC. 1874
                           313 Main Street­ Wheatland, California 95692
                           Tel (530) 633-2761 ­ Fax (530) 633-9102




DATE:        August 28, 2008

TO:          Responsible Agencies, Trustee Agencies, and Interested Persons

FROM:        Tim Raney, AICP, Community Development Director, City of Wheatland

SUBJECT:     NOTICE OF PREPRARATION OF AN ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
             REPORT FOR THE PROPOSED ANNEXATION OF THE JOHNSON
             RANCHO AND HOP FARM PROPERTIES

The City of Wheatland, Community Development Department is the lead agency for the
preparation of an Environmental Impact Report (EIR) for the Annexation of the Johnson
Rancho and Hop Farm Properties (proposed project). The scope of the EIR has been
proposed based on a determination by the City of Wheatland. The City of Wheatland
has directed the preparation of this EIR in compliance with the California Environmental
Quality Act (CEQA).

Once a decision is made to prepare an EIR, the lead agency must prepare a Notice of
Preparation (NOP) to inform all responsible and trustee agencies that an EIR will be
prepared (CEQA Guidelines, Section 15082). The purpose of the NOP is to provide
agencies with sufficient information describing both the proposed project and the
potential environmental effects to enable the agencies to make a meaningful response
as to the scope and content of the information to be included in the EIR. The City of
Wheatland is also soliciting comments on the scope of the EIR from interested persons.

SCOPING MEETING

A public scoping meeting will be held regarding the EIR for the proposed project on
Wednesday, September 17, 2008 at 6:00 PM at the Wheatland Community Center,
Main Room, located at 101 C Street, Wheatland, California, 95692.




                                         1
PROJECT DESCRIPTION

Project Location and Setting

The proposed project site is located east of the City of Wheatland, outside the City limits
but within the Wheatland Sphere of Influence (See Figure 1, Regional Location Map).

The approximately 4,069-acre project site is largely vacant/undeveloped and consists
primarily of agricultural land. Grasshopper Slough traverses the central portion of the
project site in a northwesterly to southeasterly direction. In addition, Spenceville Road
borders the northwestern/north-central boundary of the project site and Dry Creek
borders the northeast boundary of the site. The majority of the southern boundary of the
project site is made up of the Yuba County/Placer County line. State Route 65 and the
Union Pacific Railroad (UPRR) tracks are located west of the annexation boundaries
(See Figure 2, Project Annexation Boundary).

The proposed project is primarily composed of three separate properties ­ the Johnson
Rancho property, the Bear River Hop Farm property, and the Dave Browne property.
Two of the proposed project's three requested entitlements, annexation and prezone,
involve the entire 4,069-acre area composed of the Johnson Rancho, Bear River Hop
Farm, Dave Browne properties, and five additional `Wheatland' parcels. The Johnson
Rancho property includes fifteen parcels identified as the following Assessor's Parcel
Numbers (APNs): 015-160-029, 015-160-098, 015-036-024, 015-036-025, 015-037-
001, 015-080-020, 015-360-026, 015-360-028 through -032, 015-360-038, and 015-
160-095 and -096. The Hop Farm property includes four parcels identified as the
following APNs: 015-360-033 and 015-360-051 through -053. The Dave Browne
property includes two parcels identified as the following APNs: 015-056-005 and 015-
057-006. The additional `Wheatland' parcels consist of five parcels that have been
included in the proposed annexation boundaries so as to avoid the creation of county
"islands." These parcels are identified as the following APNs: 015-213-009, 015-360-
001, 015-360-007, 015-191-014, and 015-191-006. The five `Wheatland" parcels
comprise a total of 14.0 acres.

Project Description

The proposed project would include the development of up to approximately 14,329
residential lots, varying from Very Low Density Residential to High Density Residential,
on approximately 4,069 acres located within Yuba County (See Table 1). In addition,
development of the project would include other land uses, such as Employment/Office,
Commercial, Civic Center, Elementary and Middle Schools, Parks and Open Space,
and a potential hospital.




                                           2
              Table 1
Proposed Project Land Use Summary




              3
Annexation

The proposed project site is currently located outside the Wheatland city limits but within
the existing Wheatland Sphere of Influence (SOI). The project would include the
annexation of the entire 4,069-acre project site to the City of Wheatland. For this
annexation to occur, first, the City would approve an annexation resolution for the
project, which would subsequently be submitted to Yuba LAFCO for approval as a
responsible agency.

General Plan Amendment

The Hop Farm property and the five `Wheatland' parcels are the only properties in the
overall project site that were included in the Wheatland General Plan Study Area and
are therefore, the only portions of the project site that were evaluated for development
in the Wheatland General Plan EIR. The existing Wheatland General Plan land use
designations for the Hop Farm property are as follows: Low Density, Low-Medium
Density, Medium Density, and High Density Residential, Employment, Commercial,
Civic Center, Park, and School. The General Plan designations for the five `Wheatland"
parcels are Medium Density Residential and Commercial. The Johnson Rancho and
Dave Browne properties are designated in the Wheatland General Plan as Urban
Reserve. Urban Reserve is generally defined in the General Plan Policy Document as
land that " [...] may be considered for development in the future with urban uses."
(Wheatland General Plan Policy Document, Part II, p. 1-5) In addition, the Johnson
Rancho, Hop Farm, Dave Browne, and five `Wheatland' properties currently have a
Yuba County General Plan land use designation of Valley Agriculture (VA).

The project would include a General Plan Amendment to designate the Johnson
Rancho and Dave Browne properties as the following City of Wheatland General Plan
land use designations: Very Low Density Residential (VLDR), Low Density Residential
(LDR), Low-Medium Density Residential (LMDR), Medium Density Residential (MDR),
Employment (EMP), Commercial (C), Public/Quasi-Public, Park/Open Space, and
School (See Figure 3, General Plan Amendment Exhibit).

It should be noted that the alignment of the State Route (SR) 65 Bypass on the Hop
Farm property, as shown in Figure 3, is consistent with the alignment shown on the
Wheatland General Plan Circulation Element. However, given the SR 65 Bypass
Alternatives Analysis recently prepared by HDR Engineering, Inc., the possibility exists
that this approved alignment may need to be adjusted, in which case the proposed
project will include an entitlement and associated analysis in the EIR for approval of an
amendment to the General Plan for realignment of the SR 65 Bypass.

Prezone

Currently, the parcels on the project site have various Yuba County agricultural zoning
designations, including Agricultural Exclusive with a ten-acre minimum (AE-10),
Agricultural Exclusive with a 40-acre minimum (AE-40), and Agricultural Exclusive with



                                           4
an 80-acre minimum (AE-80). The project would require prezoning of the entire project
site. The proposed zoning is Planned Development (PD). This will enable individual
Planning Areas to be created, each of which would have custom development
standards specific to the types of uses proposed for each particular Planning Area (See
Table 1 and Figure 4, Prezone Exhibit).

Combining the land use totals by proposed land use designation, including land area for
schools, parks, open space/drainage, and major roads, the proposed project would
result in the following land use totals, as shown in Table 1:

   ·   Very Low Density Residential (VLDR)           245.0 acres
   ·   Low Density Residential (LDR)                 1,236.8 acres
   ·   Low-Medium Density Residential (LMDR)         986.6 acres
   ·   Medium Density Residential (MDR)              647.7 acres
   ·   High Density Residential (HDR)                50.9 acres
   ·   Employment (EMP)                              286.0 acres
   ·   Commercial (C)                                138.0 acres
   ·   School (S)                                    95.0 acres
   ·   Civic Center                                  24.0 acres
   ·   Parks (P)                                     50.0 acres
   ·   Linear Parkway                                54.0 acres
   ·   Open Space/Drainage (OS)                      225.0 acres
   ·   Highway 65 Bypass                             30.0 acres

       TOTAL                                         4,069.0 acres

Project Entitlements

The entitlements requested with the application for the Johnson Rancho project include
the following:

   ·   Certification of an EIR;
   ·   Approval of an Annexation Resolution for the entire 4,069-acre project site;
   ·   Approval of a General Plan Amendment for the Johnson Rancho and Dave
       Browne portions of the project site; and
   ·   Prezoning of the entire 4,069-acre project site with City Planned Development
       (PD) zoning and associated approval of Project PD Design Guidelines.

ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS

Because the three requested entitlements for the proposed project are program-level
entitlements, a program-level EIR will be prepared for the project. The EIR will
incorporate by reference the City of Wheatland General Plan Update (GPU) Policy
Document and the GPU EIR, as well as relevant information from the GP Background
Report and associated technical reports. Raney will consult with the City and other



                                         5
appropriate agencies in order to obtain the most recent information regarding existing
utilities and service systems in the vicinity of the proposed project. In addition to these
citywide documents, Raney will utilize the technical studies prepared for the project for
various areas including, but not limited to, air quality, biological resources, cultural
resources, geology and soils, hazards, noise, and traffic and circulation. In addition,
because the various technical reports that were prepared for the General Plan provide a
foundation of information regarding the current conditions of the City's infrastructure
systems as well as needed improvements to serve the General Plan Study Area
buildout, as part of the EIR for the proposed project, these technical reports will be
updated to include the proposed project, and will subsequently identify any additional
improvements that would be needed to the City's water, sewer, and drainage systems
to accommodate the proposed project (as well as buildout of the current GP Study
Area).

Aesthetics

The Aesthetics chapter of the EIR will summarize existing regional and project area
aesthetics and visual setting in relation to the proposed project. The chapter will
describe project-specific aesthetics issues related to development of the proposed
project, such as scenic vistas, waterways or bodies of water, trees, historic buildings
and other structures, scenic highways, existing visual character or quality of the project
site and surrounding areas, as well as impacts associated with new sources of light and
glare. The Aesthetics chapter of the EIR will include an analysis of the existing setting,
identification of the thresholds of significance, identification of impacts, and the
development of mitigation measures and monitoring strategies.

Land Use

The Land Use chapter of the EIR will evaluate the consistency of the proposed project
with the City of Wheatland's adopted plans and policies. Raney will review the City's
General Plan and Zoning Ordinance, as well as any other appropriate documents to
address consistency issues. In addition, the location and types of land uses will be
reviewed for consistency with the Beale Air Force Base (AFB) Comprehensive Land
Use Plan (CLUP). Because the 4,069-acre project site is located within Yuba County,
the chapter will evaluate the consistency of the project with Yuba County Local Agency
Formation Commission (LAFCO) policies for annexation. The chapter will further assess
the compatibility of the proposed project with the surrounding land uses, both existing
and proposed. Following the setting discussion, the chapter will identify thresholds of
significance applicable to the proposed project. The impacts will be measured against
the thresholds of significance and appropriate mitigation measures and monitoring
strategies will be identified, consistent with the policies of the City of Wheatland General
Plan.




                                           6
Agricultural Resources

The Agricultural Resources chapter of the EIR will summarize the status of the existing
agricultural resources and operations within the project site and in the areas
surrounding the City of Wheatland, using the current State model and data, including
identification of any Prime or Unique Farmland, or Farmland of Statewide Importance.
Any conflicts with existing zoning for agricultural uses or right-to-farm ordinances
applicable to the project site will also be identified. The analysis will further include a
discussion regarding the amount of Prime Farmland and other Important Farmland to be
converted to non-agricultural uses as a result of the proposed project. Following the
setting discussion, the chapter will identify thresholds of significance applicable to the
proposed project, including the loss of Prime Farmland. The impacts will be measured
against the thresholds of significance and appropriate mitigation measures and
monitoring strategies will be identified, consistent with the policies of the City of
Wheatland and General Plan.

Transportation and Circulation

The Transportation and Circulation chapter of the EIR will be based on a traffic study
prepared for the proposed project by a technical subconsultant under contract with
Raney. The traffic study will include an analysis of several project-area study
intersections, including existing and projected levels of service (LOS). In addition, the
study will consider the impacts of the project on nearby roadways within the project
vicinity. The Transportation and Circulation chapter will describe existing traffic
conditions, existing plus proposed project traffic conditions (near-term), existing plus
approved projects conditions, existing plus approved projects plus proposed project
conditions, and cumulative 2030 traffic conditions under the adopted Wheatland
General Plan (with and without the proposed project).

In addition, the Transportation and Circulation chapter will include standards of
significance and methods of analysis, as well as describe the impacts associated with
project-related traffic and propose mitigation to reduce the level of impacts. This chapter
will summarize the existing and planned regional and local transportation network, as
well as existing and future traffic conditions. The chapter will identify traffic loads and
capacity of street systems, including LOS standards for critical street segments and
intersections.

Noise

The Noise chapter of the EIR will include an analysis of the existing setting,
identification of thresholds of significance, identification of impacts, and the
development of mitigation measures and monitoring strategies. The chapter will be
based on an acoustical assessment prepared by a technical subconsultant under
contract with Raney. The consultant will quantify existing traffic and general ambient
noise levels in the vicinity of the project site through continuous and/or short-term noise
level measurements and through application of accepted noise prediction



                                           7
methodologies. In addition, Union Pacific Railroad (UPRR) operations are expected to
contribute to the ambient noise environment. Noise levels generated by these
operations will be quantified through additional noise level measurements. Furthermore,
noise levels associated with Beale AFB will also be evaluated.

The consultant will identify all significant noise impacts due to and upon the proposed
project. Particular attention will be paid to traffic noise impacts associated with
increased traffic on the local roadway network, and the potential for future noise impacts
at any noise sensitive land uses located in the project vicinity. In addition, the noise
report will evaluate potential noise impacts associated with construction activities.
Appropriate and practical recommendations for noise control, which are aimed at
reducing any identified potential noise impacts to a level of insignificance, will be
included in the noise report and subsequently incorporated into the Noise chapter of the
EIR.

Air Quality

The Air Quality chapter of the EIR will summarize the regional air quality setting,
including climate and topography, existing ambient air quality, the regulatory setting,
and the presence of any sensitive receptors near the project site, based on a technical
study prepared Raney in concert with Don Ballanti Certified Consulting Meteorologists.
The Air Quality chapter will include a qualitative analysis of the construction impacts
associated with the proposed project, given the requested program-level improvements.
Microscale modeling of carbon monoxide levels will be conducted near major
intersections selected as having the greatest potential of carbon monoxide problems,
using a screening form of the CALINE-4 computer model.

In addition, the Air Quality chapter will include the preparation of an analysis of regional
changes in emissions due to vehicular travel from the project for an appropriate horizon
year using the URBEMIS-2007 computer program. An analysis of greenhouse gas
(GHG) emissions associated with the project will also be conducted. This analysis will
include a description of the current regulatory setting as it pertains to climate change
analysis in California, quantification of the project's generation of GHG emissions, and
evaluation of consistency of the project with Technical Advisory documents and
Attorney General measures. The level of significance of impacts identified in the
analyses will be determined using the thresholds of significance recommended by the
Feather River Air Quality Management District, and mitigation measures and monitoring
strategies will be recommended for all impacts identified as potentially significant.

Biological Resources

The Biological Resources chapter of the EIR will summarize the existing setting and
describe the potential effects of the project on plant communities, wildlife, and wetlands,
including adverse effects on rare, endangered, candidate, sensitive, and special-status
species for the proposed project site. The Biological Resources chapter will be based
on technical studies prepared for the project site. The chapter will include the results of



                                           8
a reference material and database search, including a review of the California Natural
Diversity Database (CNDDB), in order to determine the likelihood of whether the project
site has the potential to support special-status plant and animal species.

In addition, the reports will include the results of a program-level habitat assessment
within the entire project area and will identify the geographic extent of the various on-
site habitats. Furthermore, this chapter will identify thresholds of significance and project
impacts, and will include the development of mitigation measures and monitoring
strategies.

Archaeological and Historical Resources

The Archaeological and Historical Resources chapter of the EIR will summarize the
existing setting and briefly describe the potential effects to archaeological, historical,
and paleontological resources resulting from the eventual implementation of the
proposed project. The Archaeological and Historical Resources chapter will be based
on technical studies prepared for the project site. A records search for the project area
will be conducted utilizing the regional Information Center of the California Historical
Resources Information System. The records search will include information on any
previous cultural resources surveys conducted near the project area. In addition, the
Native American Heritage Commission will be contacted in order to request a check of
the sacred lands inventory and a list of Native American tribes with traditional ties to the
project vicinity. Letters will be written to the tribes requesting feedback regarding any
information or concerns they might have regarding the project area.

A similar information request will be sent to the Yuba County and Wheatland Historical
Societies regarding potential Euro-American historic resources. The report will also
include the results of an on-site, program-level survey of the project area. Any newly
discovered resources would be recorded to the standards of the California Historical
Resources Information System. In addition, the report will provide recommendations to
be used in the Cultural Resources chapter of the EIR, which will include identification of
the thresholds of significance, identification of impacts, and the development of
mitigation measures and monitoring strategies.

Geology and Soils

The Geology and Soils chapter of the EIR will summarize the existing setting and
describe potential effects from earthquakes, liquefaction, and expansive soils, as well as
identify any unique geological features within the project site. This chapter of the EIR
will include an analysis of the existing setting, identification of the thresholds of
significance, identification of impacts, and the development of mitigation measures and
monitoring strategies. The Geology and Soils chapter will be based on geotechnical
studies prepared for the proposed project site by a technical subconsultant.




                                            9
Hazards and Hazardous Materials

The Hazards and Hazardous Materials chapter of the EIR will summarize the existing
setting, and will describe any potential for existing hazardous materials on-site or as a
result of implementation of the proposed project, including pesticides and remnant
substances/implements associated with agricultural operations. In addition, the Hazards
and Hazardous Materials chapter will include identification of the thresholds of
significance, identification of project-related impacts, and the development of mitigation
measures and monitoring strategies. The information in the chapter will be primarily
based on the Phase I Environmental Site Assessments prepared for the entire 4,069-
acre project site by technical subconsultants.

Hydrology and Water Quality

The Hydrology and Water Quality chapter of the EIR will summarize existing setting
information and will identify the project's potential impacts on irrigation drainage,
stormwater drainage, local and regional flooding, groundwater, seepage, and water
quality. The analysis will include consideration of both on-site and off-site infrastructure
facilities. Raney will consult with the City and other appropriate agencies in order to
address any impacts. For example, as part of the preparation of the Hydrology and
Water Quality chapter, applicable Reclamation Districts will be consulted. In addition,
the following technical background reports regarding drainage and flooding that were
prepared for the Wheatland General Plan Update will be updated by technical
consultants in order to evaluate the additional improvements that will be necessary to
accommodate buildout of the proposed project, in addition to the current GP Study
Area: Draft Drainage Report for Internal Drainage (Civil Engineering Solutions, Inc.,
November 2005) and External Flood Source Protection Plan (Mead & Hunt, October 20,
2005). Raney will also consult with the project engineer. Furthermore, the chapter will
include identification of the thresholds of significance and project-related impacts, and
the development of mitigation measures and monitoring strategies.

Public Services

The Public Services chapter of the EIR will summarize existing setting information and
will identify the potential new demand that would be created by the proposed project for
law enforcement, fire protection, roads, schools, libraries, and parks and recreation.
Raney will consult with the Wheatland Fire Authority, the Wheatland Police Chief, local
school districts, and other appropriate agencies in order to obtain the most recent
information regarding existing public services in the vicinity of the proposed project, and
to evaluate the additional public services that will be necessary to accommodate
buildout of the proposed project. Furthermore, the demand that would be created by the
project for parks and open space will be evaluated via existing Wheatland General Plan
goals and policies regarding recreation facilities. The chapter will also include
identification of thresholds of significance and potential impacts, and the development of
mitigation measures and monitoring strategies.




                                          10
Utilities and Service Systems

The Utilities and Service Systems chapter of the EIR will summarize the existing setting
and will identify the potential new demand that would be created by the proposed
project for water supply, sewage systems, and solid waste disposal. The following
technical background reports regarding water and wastewater that were prepared for
the Wheatland General Plan Update will be updated in order to evaluate the additional
improvements that will be necessary to accommodate buildout of the proposed project,
in addition to the current GP Study Area: the Master Water Plan Technical Report
(Terrance Lowell & Associates, Inc., September 28, 2005); the Wastewater Treatment
Facilities Master Plan (CH2MHILL, September 2004); and the Sewer Collection System
Master Plan Technical Report (Terrance Lowell & Associates, September 2004). The
chapter will also include identification of thresholds of significance and potential
impacts, and the development of mitigation measures and monitoring strategies.

DISCUSSION OF CUMULATIVE IMPACTS

In accordance with Section 15130 of the CEQA Guidelines, an analysis of cumulative
impacts associated with the proposed project will be undertaken and discussed. In
addition, pursuant to Section 21100(B)(5) of the CEQA Guidelines, the cumulative
analysis will address the potential for growth-inducing impacts associated with the
proposed project, and will focus on whether or not implementation of the proposed
project would remove any existing impediments to growth.

DISCUSSION OF ALTERNATIVES

In accordance with Section 15126.6(a) of the CEQA Guidelines, several project
alternatives, including the No Project Alternative, will be analyzed. For the proposed
program EIR, the Alternatives section will evaluate at a minimum three alternatives: the
No Project Alternative and two other alternatives, which will be determined during the
preparation of the Administrative Draft EIR for the proposed project.

The alternatives analysis will "describe a range of reasonable alternatives to the project,
or to the location of the project, which would feasibly attain most of the basic objectives
of the project but would avoid or substantially lessen any of the significant effects of the
project, and evaluate the comparative merits of the alternatives." The analysis will
include sufficient information about each alternative to allow meaningful evaluation of,
and comparison with, the proposed project. The significant effects of the alternatives will
be discussed, but in less detail than the significant effects of the proposed project. The
discussion will also identify and analyze the "environmentally superior alternative."




                                          11
SUBMITTING COMMENTS

To ensure that the full range of issues related to this proposed project is addressed and
all significant issues are identified, written comments are invited from all interested
parties. Written comments concerning the proposed EIR for the proposed project should
be directed to the name and address below:

                   Mr. Tim Raney, Community Development Director
                                  City of Wheatland
                                   313 Main Street
                               Wheatland, CA 95692
                              Phone: (530) 633-2761
                                Fax: (530) 633-9102

Written comments are due to the City of Wheatland at the location addressed
above by 5:00 p.m. on September 27, 2008.




                                         12
      Figure 1
Regional Location Map




              Project Site




       13
          Figure 2
Project Annexation Boundary




          14
            Figure 3
General Plan Amendment Exhibit




            15
   Figure 4
Prezone Exhibit




    16
APPENDIX B
  09/17/2008     WED 15: 12    FAX 5~,0   533 9102 CITY OF WHEATLAND   ~~~   Raney Planing Mgt                  1410021003




                                                                                                    V    .'Ir




       --+~'--P-"'----.L.!....<.LLL~-'-""-L....<-                                         ~   _ _ .~_ _ ~_ _




                                               /'fkI2L &.e,~                  ~,A: r           t!2E CA;1/~
                                                              tI.i.o    ,L 1Ki;-        7#£ _O~
~~-'~--'-~¥JL-'~ALP')27~./J'k2~~~e?h'zz·2.#£
-'---'-"---:.                   - . ---~47/d/V 0 /                           U-6:      c7f)'</@&V' __..              ..

~-1=Z4~ ddtz~. ~a£7/~7$.-,--. _ _
           Iii                 T    b4CtIt/U         L/If~~p$                /,,£,cu¥     12%     mt?9f f//7'IJ
           Ii
           II &--tutl /LU2lc"             LiZ -pef      Md/t~-#-;Z- /11/            Me        {).,h, .;;~
     --H--._-"L,/.fl4L.f!/.               R~ 6'/fltKo.s    7(;L-J~..{'?tV? 7qna~                        /' rCi/~ r




----+i---k.4.4.4¥-,~/--+I9-\k-"P\_<KM_               /l¥X7 70                7'//1-£     eA2110    err 7
                                                    y 0Ib       !Altfi!£7//f7'1-60_ ~Le_


          I
          I'                  7JlJ1..      &Z~.A          /9r~           ~               ~J!?l[                 /~
---II/2e                        ?I!£. 4 ~ Z. -e:, IS ?de.
                              IJjclCl/.t.c       IN
          II ~i!:6? 7Jtd'i 71fU" &aJ-eCz mlJZlY g/d't~
          ii (9 tV ~ II!. t±76t CR u81,),,1 Lj Jbtlt2 Cf I/HIV7/ 1)/
           I'
           11
           11
          Ii
          !!
     09/17/2008         WED 15,12    FAX 530    633   9102 CITY OF WHEATLAND    ~~~ Raney Planing Mgt        1.4i003/003

             il
             'I                                                      fJ 2\
             :1                                                      L V
             i:
              !:I

_~_Jl
             il-~---'-

--.--H A ~_-lL-lf~L.A-fI!..{ __ 7 tl ;t7H~R ~.Y ~
----1170      .1

          7tf!J ?'/{~a#-U/ t<J4VP /WA: ~/J1#Z td1/,/ZY ~

--i           ila~
                                    1-t?qAl----YPl! 41?t£
____-++.£/IIt7I02~ ~t:.4f.A7' /l2hYh"A
                                                                   .------~-------
                                                                        ,Ek<2#!itk. Nz.a</G /fr 7A'£ -
                                                                                                   6Jph7.I<~
             J                                                               6sv7.
_ _ _~t:t.f:Z,~:u'                  .'2JtV-   ,11) (lNIGI,PAl-7.      /l /;)1/JJ'~          GLJ///I./c>/L
              I

                    I                    11/&                 _LfitJd Fl-~              1C-_/A!9
                                                                                               .t /·y:;,fr
         ~~(flAJ7.4c7 .~_ eFlfJj'I/2,;t.                                                                     ?HAF
----i-:lo~I4'-J'Z12Gl2ft$P#Z                                             WtX&'JA?A:? 7           to/?     (s.:?O)
_ _----'1+---1           g-8 if :.0J£ .2              7o.lfif ~fAU? 19AJ                       (2t!-1:-~~~
___ II                              Z¥#/la ,Yet! ~K                            Z/A1e       /bY""        I!UC<'G:;4~"_
              I: uJ            7#~ frJn7iW?                                     .-,                                 .-~
-
              d
             .\+-11_ _



_____il             I
                        ~lN~
                          -  ----~------~---------

                          ~ ~---:>                                                               - - - - - ._-




              I
    ---#-------                          ---~-------~--------------.--,._-
              I
              II
    -----+II---~-·_-----_·_··_·_-------------
         II


              ;f
    -~ ---f·I·--------
              11
              "
              :1
10/10/2008 FRI 16: 35    FAX 530 633 9102 CITY OF WHEATLAND         ~~~   Raney Planing Mgt                    [4]0021003




          October 10, 2008

          Tim Raney, Planning Director
          City ofWheatland
          313 Main Street
          VVheatland, CA 95692

          Dear Mr. Raney and the City ofWheatland,

          I wish to fully explain and expound upon my comments made at the public scoping
          Meeting on October I, 2008.

          * Compensation for quiet, dark, peaceful rural life taken away? We bought and built out
          here because of the quiet, peaceful, dark rural life. Suddenly, we will be surround by
          noise, light and the stresses of city life. How can Johnson Rancho developers ever begin
          to compensate us for that?

          * Why wasn't Eric Lane considered in the annexation into the "sphere of influence" of
          Wheatland?

          * What measures will this project take to insure that current surrounding resident's wells
          will not be depleted? The residents on and near Eric Lane are currently concerned with
          another project that will also border this project (The Ostrom Road aggregate mine and
          asphalt batching plant) that will be drawing water from the aquifer in the amounts of up
          to 1.5 million gallons per day. If one or both ofthese projects are approved, what
          guarantees will the City ofWheatland and the developer give that my existing wells will
          continue at their current production? If my wells fail, what will the City ofWheatland
          and the developer do to make me whole? Without water this property is worth zero.

         * Keep natural contours of drainage. Water drains from the properties on the east and
         west on to our property and then flows the length ofand offour property to the south on
         to Johnson Rancho land. What will be done to that natural contour that it does not
         change the ability to properly drain water runoff from our properties? What will happen
         to the natural pools and stream beds that now exist on that property? Certainly there are
         creatures that exist because ofand depend on that event happening each and every year.
         What will happen to them?

         '" Rodent controL Wildlife and reptile relocation. Snake fencing. There being eleven
         phases and the last one is the one that will border Eric Lane, what do your think all of the
         existing creatures (I.e. rodents, snakes, coyotes, foxes and the Lord only knows what else)
         will do? I believe that they will seek refuge in any safe haven that is not being bulldozed,
         flattened, paved and built upon. That means Eric Lane properties will be inundated by

                                                                                                 RECEIVED
                                                                                                OCT 102008
                                                                                                     CITY OF
                                                                                                  WHEATLAND
10/10/2008 FRI 16, 35    FAX 530 633 9102 CITY OF WHEATLAND          ~~~ Raney Planing Mgt              IilI003/003




          them. At the very least, I would like to see "snake fencing" installed to control the
          onslaught of snakes, in particular rattle snakes?

          * Our existing fence undisturbed. Property boundaries fencing: At minimum 8' block
          wall. We have a very nice, tight 4 foot tall 2 x 4 no-climb horse wire fence with a smooth
          wire across the top. Our property was surveyed and the fence was placed on the property
          line. I do not want to see that fence disturbed. We fenced because we have dogs that are
          able to run free. We would want a pennanent cinder block wall erected so that the new
          "neighbors" will not have access to our property.

           ;« Street lighting: Non-invasive down lighting only. No 2-story homes bordering existing
          properties. Limit # of homes/properties touching each existing property line.
          To maintain some of our current "rural" life, we would insist that there be no light
          pollution from street lights. There are special "down lighting" that can and should be
          installed. Also, there should be no 2 story homes built along existing property boundaries
          to insure that new home owners caImot look down and onto our property. Also, a
          minimum ofproperties (limit to only two touching any given boundary) should be able to
          built along side the existing properties of Eric Lane, to again minimize the effects on our
          rural life.

          * Water and sewer stubbed up at property boundaries. Cable and internet service
          brought to Eric Lane residents. Pave Eric Lane. Ignoring the 16 properties on Eric Lane
          and not providing them or offering them amenities being brought within feet ofthem is
          wrong. They should be given them also.

          * McCurry Street intersection is dangerous at best. With the additional street traffic on
          Spenceville Road, the intersection at McCurry Street needs to be reworked so that the
          drivers exiting from Wheatland Ranch subdivision can have clear sight of oncoming
          traffic. Or a stop light or three way stop sign at that intersection would solve that
          problem, but something must be done.

          ll<Incorporate wind/solar as alternative energy sources for entire project. With a project
          as large as this and with the amount of available land that would be left as "open space",
          alternative energy sources must be included as a huge part ofthis project. If only to
          power street lights or operate irrigation for parks, schools etc. Incorporated in the
          building stages, it would be a cheap source of renewable power.


          Thank you for taking our concerns into consideration. We look forward to hearing from
          you on these matters.

          Janice and Perrie Costa
          6850 Eric Lane
          Wheatland, CA 95692
          (530) 633-2942
09/18/2008 THU 14,52       FAX 530 633 9102 CITY DF WHEATLAND            ~~~   Raney Planing Mgt                  ldIo01/002




        State af.Califomia-Business, Transportation and Housing Agency   ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER, GovlIrnor

        DEPARTMENT OF CALIFORNIA HIGHWAY PATROL
        Yuba Sutter CHP
        1619 Poole Blvd.
        Yuba City, Ca., 95993
        (530) 674-5141
        (800)735-2929 (nrrOO)
        (800) 735·2922 (Voice)

        September 15, 2008

        File No.: 285.10836.10836


                                                                                            RECEI'JE.D
        Mr. Tim Raney, Communications Development Director
                                                                                           SEP 1B10nB
                                                                                                e\1'! of
        City of Wheatland                                                                     l)Ii\1cf>.i\J..NO
        313 Main Street
        Wheatland, CA 95692

        Dear Me Raney:

       I received a copy of the Notice of Preparation (NOP) for an Environmental Impact Report (EIR)
       for the proposed aIUlexation of the Johnson Rancho and Hop Farm properties. The California
       Highway Patrol (CHP), Yuba Sutter Area command, provides traffic law enforcement services in
       the unincorporated arcas of Yuba County surrounding the city of Wheatland. The project
       described the proposed annexation of 4000 acres of land to be used for a combination of
       residential housing, 8chools, parks and possibly a hospital. The Yuba Sutter Area is interested in
       the traffic volume data of this project to forecast the impact on CHP operations in regards to the
       timeliness of responding to emergency calls on the surrounding county roads beyond the
       projects' limits east of Wheatland on Spenceville Road and the recreational area around Camp
       Far West Lake. The pruject includes incorporating portions of Spenceville Road to provide
       access into the developed zones with new intersections. As you already know, Spenceville Road
       is the main roadway for people accessing Beale Air Force Base via the SpencevilIe gate, county
       residents living east of Wheatland, and people recreating in the Spenceville Wildlife area and at
       Camp Far West lake.

       The Yuba Sutter Area requests that traffic mitigation plans take into account the inevitable
       changes to Spenceville Road, the increase traffic volumes, and the probability of increased
       response times by emergency service providers, like the CHP, to incidents east of the city of
       Wheatland due to the lack of other secondary roadways in Yuba County east of the proposed
       project.




                                             Safety, Service, and Security
09/18/2Q08   THU 14: 52   FAX 53D   633 9102 CITY OF WHEATLAND      ~~~ Raney Planing Mgt                 [4]D02(002




        Mr. Tim Raney, Communications Development Director
        Page 2
        September 15, 2008



        If you have any questions concerning thesc comments, please feel free to contact either myself,
        or Sergeant Scott Klocker, at the Yuba Sutter Area CHP office during regular business hours at
        (530) 674-5141.

        Sincerely,




        cc: Special Projects Section
STATE OF CALlFOW1A_-iIUSINFSS. TRANSpoRTATION ANI> HOUSING AGENCY                             ARNOW SCHW ARZENEGGER, Governor


DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
DISTRICT 3
703 B STREET
P. O. BOX 911
MARYSVILLE, CA 95901-0911                                                                                    Flex your power!
PHONE (530)741-4025                                                                                        Be energy efficient!
FAX (530) 741-4825
TTY (530) 741-4509




        October 10, 2008

        08YUBOOl9
        03YUB65/PM 0.7
        SCH #2008082127
        Johnson Rancho/Hop Farm Properties

        Tim Raney
        City of Wheatland
        313 Main Street
        Wheatland, CA 95692

        Dear Mr. Raney:

        Thank you for the opportunity to review and comment on the notice of preparation (NOP)
        of an environmental impact report (EIR) for the proposed annexation of the Johnson
        Rancho and Hop farm properties, SCH#2008082 127. The approximately 4,069-acre
        project site, located east of the City of Wheatland, will include the development of up to
        14,329 residential lots and other land uses, such as employment/office, commercial, civic
        center, elementary and middle schools, parks and open space, and potentially a hospital.
        Caltrans has the following comments in regards to this application:

        Traffic ()perations and Circulation

        A Traffic Impact Study (TIS), containing appropriate mitigation funding mechanisms should
        be provided for the environmental document. The TIS should be prepared in accordance with
        the "Guide for the Preparation of Traffic Impact Studies" updated December 2002. The City
        of Wheatland has indicated that it is permissible for Caltrans to communicate directly with
        the consultant to facilitate discussions regarding preparation of the EIR and TIS. Caltrans
        will keep the City informed about those communications and invites the City to participate.
        Initial guidance for the development of the TIS is as follows:

             ·   The traffic study should include analysis offorecast conditions at the 20-year horizon,
                 assuming build-out of the Wheatland General Plan, including this and other potential
                 amendments/additions to the Wheatland General Plan. It is permissible that the TIS
                 20-year horizon analysis assume the build-out of the Wheatland Expressway. It
                 should be noted however, that it is entirely possible that the expressway will not be
                 built for many years beyond the 20-year horizon. As such, a 20-year cumulative

                                             "Ca/trans improves mobiliry across California"
Tim Raney
October 10, 2008
Page 2 00



       analysis, without the Wheatland Expressway, should be included in the traffic impact
       study.

   ·   The TIS should include project trip generation, distribution and assignment, diagrams
       for SR-65 and major arterials before and after construction of the Wheatland
       Expressway. Analysis should include Highway Capacity Manual (HCM 2000)
       analysis of intersections and ramps; weaving analysis should be performed using the
       Leisch method identified in the Caltrans Highway Design Manual. Whcre
       i tersection queuing is shown to stack from one intersection to another (of particular
       concern at closely spaced/high volume intersections), a traffic simulation should be
       wicd to accurately analyze operations. Please send back-up data fOT calculations or
       simulation results, and electronic copies of simulation files to Caltrans for review and
       comment.

   ·   A large proportion of trips traveled on SR-65 are created by commuter traffic. This
       travel pattern is expected to continue into the future. Near term access to SR-65
       (current city grid, and planned "Ring Road") will be limited in the amount of traffic
       that can be delivered from and to SR-65 during peak demand hours. Because of this,
       new development will quickly trigger the need to connect the proposed Wheatland
       Expressway to SR-65 at both the north and south ends of the proposed route. A
       s"nsitivity analysis should be included in the TIS for the EIR to determine at what
       point volumes created by increased development trigger the need for these
       connections.

   ·   Proposed traffic signals on SR-65 should also be analyzed with "opening day plus 5
       yt.:ar" forecast volumes.

Right-of -Way

The City has expressed the desire to eventually dedicate/exchange the proposed Wheatland
Expressway to Caltrans as a replacement for the existing State Route (SR) 65 that bisects
Wheatland. To encourage eventual route adoption/exchange by the state, sufficient right-of-
way should be preserved for the Wheatland Expressway, assuming a four-lane freeway as the
ultimate facility. Future interchange locations should reserve sufficient right-of-way for
interchange footprints that can accommodate forecast volumes at LOS D or better.
Interchange footprints should assume an L-9 (partial c1overlea!) design.




                             "CollrOI1S improves mobility ocross California"
Tim Raney
October 10, 2008
Page 3 of3



HydroloiIT

The proposed parcels are up gradient of SR-65. Hydrologically, there is not a problem with
changing the zoning designation, but development plans to implement the new zoning will
need to address hydrology issues. Additional requirements (as cited in Appendix A) will be
suggested when the applicant further develops the proposed parcels.

Encroachment Permit

All work proposed and performed within the State SR-65 right-of-way must be in
accordance with Caltrans ' standards and require a Caltrans Encroachment Pennit prior to
commencing construction, surveying or other activities in the right-of-way. For more
information on encroachment permits, the requirements, and an application fann, please
visit our web page at www.dot.ca.gov/doingbusiness and then click on "Encroachment
Permits'· or contact the CallTans District 3, Office of Permits at (530) 741-4403.

If you have questions or need additional information, please contact Sarah (Sadie) Smith,
IGR Coordinator, at (530) 741-4004 or e-mail atSarah_Smith@dot.ca.gov.

Sincerely,




SUKH\llNDER (SUE) TAKHAR, Chief
Office of Transportation Planning - North




                            "Co/trans improves mobility across California"
                                                                                                           ~002!018
10/09/2008 THU 14: 20         FAX 530 633 9102 CITY OF WHEATLAND   --- Raney Planing Mgt

                               63475[,r]                                                            PAGE    Ell
  10/09/2008    14:00

                                                                                                938 14"' Street
                                                                                         Marysville, CA 95901
                                                                                              (530) 634-7659
                                                                                          FAX (530) 634-7660
                                                                                            www.fraqllld.org

                                                                                           David A. Valier, Jr.
                                                                                 Air Pollution Control Officer
         Serving Slma,.nd YlIb8 Countie8

          Octobe.:r 7, 2008

          City of Wheatland
          313 Main Street
          Wheatland, CA 95692

         Re: Notice of Preparation (NOP) of an Environmenta} Impact Report (ErR) for the Proposed
         Annexation of thfc.Johnson Rancho and Hop Farm Properties-

         To \iVhom It May Concern:

         The Feather River lur Quahty Management District (District) appreciates the opportunity
         pl'ovide comments on the scope and content of the information to be included in the EIR for this
         project. The District's comments are recommendations regarding the analysis of potential air
         quality impacts from, the.: proposed project that should be included in the Draft Enviromnental
         Impact Report (DEIR).

         Criteria Pollutants
         The District has been designated nonattainment Ear State Ambie.ot Air Quality Standards (AAQS)
         for ozone and particul.'l.te matter (PM). In addition, the District has bem :rel;ommendcd
         nonattainnlent by the California Air Resources Board for the Federal PM 2.5 AAQS and will be
         officially deSignated by the US EPA by the end of 2008_ The propm;ed project site is adjacent to
         Placer County and southt>m Sutter COemty, both part of the Sacra.mento Fedetal Nonartainrnent
         Area for the 8-hour Ozone AAQS. Therefore, the project has the potential to impact both Federal
         and State PM and ozone nonattainment areaS and emissions of these pollutants must be
         quantified in the HR.

         A detailed air quality analysis should be perfonned that considers er.o.issions from both the
         Construction and Operational phgses. The analysis of Con.struction phase operations should not
         be qualitative as suggested in the NOP, but quantitative, utilizing a District approved emissions
         modeling program such as URBEMIS 2007. Emission.s from each phase of the project should be
         takm blto consideration when performing the air quality analysis_

         The thresholds of significance from which the results of the madding for Construction and
         Operational phases of the proposed project should be evaluated are 25 Ibs/day for. both oxides of
         nitrogen and reactive organic gases and 80 Ibs/day parriculate matter. The t;hresholds apply to
         both Construction and Operational phaSES of the project.

         This project shall incorporate all feasible mitigation measures to r.educe the potential impact. A
         list of Best Available Mitigation Measures (BAMM) is attached that contains measures shown to
         reduce the impact of various types of pr~jects on air quality_ In addition. phases of devdopmcDt
         could br;: planned to reduce vehicle: miles travded, such as developing areas of residential and
         employment simultaneously along with commercial centers. This may reduce the amount of
         emissions generatf'dfrom vehicle miles traveled.
                                                                                                                                141003/01 B
10/09/2008 THU 14: 20
                           FAX 530 633 9102 CrTY OF WHEATLAND                    ~~~ Raney Planing Mgt

                                                                     FEATHER RI\iER AIR                                  PAGE     82
  10/03/2088   14:00        5347558
                                                                                    Feather River Air Quality Management District
                                                                                                                     Page 2 of2

          TransJ?oltation
          Transpottation "livill be a significant au quality issue and should be thoroughly addressed in the
          ErR. Th.e mitigation tI1eaSure.5 :in the BAMM lIrc design features to encourage altern'ltlve IlJ.odes of
          transportation and reduce dependence upon personal vehicles mps for work, retail, and
          edl1cational nceds_ The District reconune:nds that designated ft1nding for mass transportation be
          considered by developers as well as a transportation plan that connects the project to other urban
          areas in Yuba COl1Dty as well as the snrrounding counties of Sut:I;er and Place.f_ Mic:toscale
          modeling of carbon monoxide levcls at major intersection" which will be impacted by this project
          should be pnfonned using CALINE~4 or othtr District approw:dmode1.

          Residential Wood Combushon
          As previously mentioned, the District will be designated nonattainml::nt fur. the Federal PM2.5
          AAQS. A major contribution to the PM2.5 emissions in Yl1ha COl1Dty during exceedenc!:: days is
          organic carbon from residential wood combu/:ition. 111e District strongly advises that project
          proponents prohibit wood burnillg fireplaces unless they are EP A~certi£ied pbse II devices to
          reduce areawide PM2.5 emissions dUring operational phase. Distri.ct Rule 3.17 regarding wood
          combustion is attached_

          Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions
          The ErR should quantify the proposed project's greenhouse gas emissions and evaluate the
          potential to impact to climate change. The project should evaluate the im.pact of the project using
          technical support documents and guidance available through the CARB, Attorney General of the:
          State of California, and the California Air Pollution Control Officers Association's (CAPCOA),
          induding thresholds of signilican.ce and feasible mitigation measures.

          Construction Emissions
          The Disttict requires standard construction phase Inltlgation        IUCQSun:s on all projects
          (attachments A &: B). In addition to these measures, the proposed project shall implement the list
          oEBest Available Mitigation Measures (attachment C) as will as both of the following measures:

                 ·     The propa:o.ent shall assemble a CDmp~ehcnsiv~ inventory list (i.e. ma:k~, mQdel. engine year, hors~power,
                       emission ~gtes) of all heavy-duty off-road (portable md moblk) eqUipment (50 hClTsepower andgte:ater)
                       that will be used an aggregate of 40 or InOte hOllrs fot the constr1.lctiou. proj~t.
                 ·     The pmject shall provide a phm for approval by FRAQMD demonstrating tfult the heavy-duty (equal to
                       or gre:l,ter than SO horsepower) off-road equipment to be used in the construction project, including
                       oWlJed, kased and subcontractor vehide.~, will achi!C\le a project wide fket-avexage 20 percent NOx
                       rt:ducti.on and 45 percent particulate reduction compared co t:hc IDQ.st r~ent CARE fleet average at time
                       of co:o.struction. A COfistnicl:i.on MitigatiC10 Calculatm: (MS Excel) may be downloaded from the
                       Sl'vlAQMD web site to perform rhe fleet average e:valuanon: http://www.::Iirguality_org{I:CQa/iQdex.shtml._
                       AccCj:ltabk options for reducing =is6ions may include use of latc model engmes, low-etniS.$ion dkstl
                       products, aItcrn.ative IDe]", engine retrofit technology (Carl Moye~ GUidelines), aft<:t-treatment products,
                       voluntary offsite mitigation projects, provide: funds for air distriet ofMre mitigation p~OjectS, anclJor other
                       options as they become avaH~bk. Tht Dlstrlc:t should be contacted ro disCQss alternative mcasur.es.

          1£ you need further .infonnation or          ilss~stanCE:, please contact me at (530) 634 r 7659 x21O.                 Air
          District staff will be available [0 assist the project proponent or Lea,d Agen.cy as needed,

          Sincerely,


            94t~~
          Sondra Andersson
          Air Quality Phmner
          Eudosures: Attachments A, B, &: C, BAMM, Rule 3.17
                                                                                                               ~004/018
10/09/2008 TBU 14: 20     FAX 530 633 9102 CITY OF WHEATLAND          ~~- Raney Planing Mgt

                                                            FEATHER RlljER AIR.                        PAGE        tJ:-:
 10!09i23~8    14:00      534751;8




                                                    Attachment A          l
                                                                          j
                                 Feather River Air Quality Managcmen District
                                            Fugitive Dust Control Plan

    This plan, upon signature and submittal to the FRAQMD. will serve s an approved Fugitive Dust Control
    Plan to be implemented at the designated site. This plan must be subrJ.itted by the project proponent and
    received at the air district prior to start of work.

    The approved plan serves as an acknowledgment by the pr~ject propollent of their dnty to address state
    and local.Iaws governing fugitive dust emissio.ns and the potential for first offense issuauce of a Notice of
    Violation by the air district where violations are substantiated by Dist ict staff: This plan (along with
    standard mitigation measures for all projects and best available mitigation measures where applicable)
    shall be made available to the contractors and construction superinten~ent on the project site.

    ·   Site Location:                                                    l_~ __~                   _
    ·   Project Type (circle all that apply): Residential   Commercial     Ihdustrial   Transportation

    ·   List of respOllsible persons:                                       I
        Company:                                                            :-_~                  ~



        Office (name, title, address, phone):                               I

        Field (name, title, phone):

    ·   Projected Start and End Dates:                                      I
           (Day/MonthlYeat)                                                 I
    Project Proponent:                                                      \-            ~_

                                          Printed Name                      I     CompanylPhone


    Signature: _ _~ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Title: _ _----:~                                         _

    By signing this document I acknowledge that I have read the acoompanlmg literature regarding state and
    local fugitive dust emission laws and lUlderstand that it is my responsibllity as the project proponent to
    ensure that appropriate materials and instructions are available to site erbployees to implement fugitive
    du~t mitigation lUeasures (AttacJ:unent B) appropriate for each deve1opl~ent pha:se Qfthis project

    r further aoknowledge that it is my responsibility to ensure that site emwoyees are made fonnally aware
    of fugitive dust control laws, requirements, and available mitigation techniques, and that appropriate
    measures are to be implemented at the site as nece-ssary to prevent fugitJvc dust "violations.
     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ FRAQMD - Effecti.ve 09/09/03 :.Ji-~--------
                                                      th
               Please Submit to: FRAQMD, 938 14 Street,        Marysville. c19590l Attn: Planning
              Phone: 530-634-7659 x21 0         FAX: 530-634-7660    Email: tandersson@fraqmd.org

                                                                                                              A-
                                                                                                           141005/018
                         FAX 530 633 9102 CITY OF WHEATLAND         ~~~ Raney Planing Mgt
10/09/2008 THU 14,21

                                                           FEATHER RI"./ER Ai.P                     PAGE    1'l4
  10/03/2008   14:00      5347550



                                                   AttachmentB
                                    Feather River Air Quality Management District

                       Standard Constructioll Phase Mitigation Measures for All Projects

     1. Mandatnr'y: Implement the Fl1gitivl: Dust Control Pl<iD

     2. Construction equipment exhaust emissions shall not exceed FRAQMD Regulation III, Rule 3.0, Visible
        Emissions limitations (40 percent opacity or Ringelmann 2.0). Operators ofvehicle.s and equipment
        found to exceed opacity limits shall take action to repair the equipment within 72 hours or remove the
        equipment from service, Failure to comply may result in a Notice of Violation.


     3. The primary contractor shall be responsible to ensure that all construction equipment is properly tuned
        and maintained prlor to and for the duratkm of onsite operation.


     4. Minimize idling time to 5 minutes - saves fuel and reduces emissions. (State idling rule; commercial
        diesel vehicles- 13 CCR Chapter 10 Section 2485 em:ctive 02/01/2005; off road dil:se1 vehic1es- 13
        CCR Chapter 9 Article 4,8 Secti.on 2449 effective 05/0 1/2008)


     5. Utilize existing power sources (e.g., power poles) or dean fuel generators rather than temporary power
        generators.


     6. Develop a traffic plan to minimize traffic flow interference from construetkm activities. The plan may
        include advance pUblic notice of routing, use of public transponation, and satellite parking areas with a
        sJmttle service. Schedule operations affecting traffic for off-peak hours. Minimize obstruction of
        through-traffic lanes. Provide a flag person to guide traffic properly and ensure safely at construction
        sites.


     7. Portable engines and portable engine-driven cquipml:nt units used at the project work site, with the
        exception of on-road and off-road motor vehicles, may require California Air Resources Board (ARB)
        Portable Equipment Registration with the State or a local distI'ict pennit. The ownerloperatot sha.lI be
        responsible for arranging appropriate consultations with the ARB or the District to determine
        registration and permitting requirements prior to equipment operation at the site.
                                                                                                                                     1410061018
                               FAX 530 633 9102 CITY OF WHEATLAND                     ~~~ Raney Planing Mgt
10/09/2008 THU 14: 21

                                                                          ,[ATI![R RIVER AIR                                  PAGE     05
  10/03/2008       14:08        5347660



                                     Attachment C
                                        Fe~ther River Air
                                      Quality Management District
            FUGITIVE DUST CONTROL - BEST AVAILABLE MITIGATION MEASURES
     TO BE USED IN ADDITION TO STANDARD CONSTRUCTION PHASE MITIGATION MEASURES
    Source.s; FRAQM'D Indirect Sf)'~rce Rrcl'it'Yl' Guideline,. QI/d Bes! AVClilable Mitigation Measures compiled by rhe air d':11ricJs ,,[the
                  Oreaw- Sacramento Region and approved/or implemenfatirm by the FRAQMD Board ofDirectors.

  All grading qj2erations on a project should be sllspended when winds exceed 20 miles pel' hour Or when winds
  carry dust beyond the property line despite implementation of all feasible dust control measures.

  Construction sites shall be watercg as directed by the Department of Public Works                        OT   Air Quality Management
  District and as necessary to prevent fugitive dust violations,

  An operational water truck should be onsite <It all times. Apply water to control dust as needed to prevent
  visible emissions violations and offsite dust impacts.

  Onsite dirt piles or other stockpiled particulate matter should be covered, wind breaks installed, and water
  and/or soU stabilizers employed to reduce wind blown dust emissions. Incorporate the use of approved nOn~
  toxic soil stabilizers according to manufacturer's specifications to all inactive construction areas.

  All transfer processes involving a [Tee fall of soil or other particulate matter shall be operated in such a manner
  as to minimize the free fal! distance and fugitive dust emissions.

  Apply approved chemical soil stabilizers according to the manufacturers' specifications, to all-inactive
  construction areas (previously graded areas that remain inactive for 96 hours) induding unpaved roads and
  employee/equipment parking areas.

  To prevent 1:l'<I.ck-ottt, wheel washers should be installed where project vehicles and/or equipment exit onto
  paved streets from unpaved roads. Vehicles and/or equipment shall be washed prior to each trip. Alternatively, a
  gravel bed may be installed as appropriate at vehicle/equipment site exit points to effectively remove soil
  buildup on tires and tracks to prevent/diminish track·out.

  Paved streets shall be swept frequently (water sweeper with reclaimed water recommended; wet broom) if soil
  material has been carried onto adjacent paved, public thoroughfares from the project site.

  Provide temporary traffic control as needed during all phases of construction to improve traf11c flow, as deemed
  appropriate by the Department ofPubli.c Works and/or Caltrans and to reduce vehicle dust emissions, An
  effective m.easure is to enforce vehicle traffic speeds at or be.low 15 mph.

  Reduce traffic speeds on all unpaved surfaCes to 15 miles per hour or less and reduce unnecessary vehicle traffic
  by restricting access. Provide appropriate training, onsite enforcement, and signage.

  Reestablish ground cover on the construction site as soan as possible and prior to final occupancy, through
  seeding and waieri.ng,

  Disposal by Burning: Open bumiIlg is yet another sourCe of fugitive gas and particulate emis.sions and shall be
  prohibited at the project site. No open burning of vegetative waste (natural plant gro~ wastes) or otller legal
  or illegal bum materials (trash, demolition debris, et. al.) may be conducted at the project site. Vegetative
  wastes sbould be chipped or delivered to waste to energy facilities (permitted biomass faciUties), mulched,
  composted, or used for firewood. It is unlawful to haul waste materials offsite for disposal by open burning.
              _~                            FRAQMD "- Effective 09/09}03                             ..
            Append;x C                                                         FRAQMD Best Available Mitigation Measures with Point Values                                                                                                  ,...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,-'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ~


                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -._'.        '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CSl          '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ~



                                                                                   ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               cD
                                                                                           ]                                                                                                                                   ~~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            a
                                                                                   ~-~                                                                                                                                         N
                                                                                   E
                                                                                   5
                                                                                     ",.-
                                                                                   ~ ~ e
                                                                                         iii ~."
                                                                                                                         .
                                                                                                                       ,i!  E
                                                                                                                         .,::
                                                                                                                                 ~                                                                                             ""
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ""
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               [0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            00

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            >-3

                                                                                   g~        E Ii                       >e                                                                                                     >-'          '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            c:
                                                                                   ~&8i
                                                                                                                        ~,-




    #                                 Description                                  til& ~ ~
                                                                                                                          '"
                                                                                                                         " ><
                                                                                                                        '-
                                                                                                                        <f2                                               Comments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ""
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               "'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (S)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            t-"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IV

                                                    : .':.' ,',:'.:'.' ,"::','."::)',:
,,',"':.;',., ,,!,,I.';~.I~e$~m~!ltr~ll.ll!c,.>;'::::                                          _.   _·.· u   ":: : : : : " :
                                                                                                                               . ':"'.:.::,.'::'."">' ......:. ::.....                                 .   .     , ......                    '"""

    1
           Non-r5S1cen1!aI praJecrs pr!WKIe orcycle lOCKers a>rtwor
           racks                                                                          C                                    0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .<>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OJ

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ><
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                --.J
           Provide an addttiooal20 percent 01 requira<! Class I and
    2      Class JI bicycle parkinQ lacililies                                            C                                    0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                fT'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                fT,          '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C<>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '"
           NOfl-te.iden!hl1 projects provfde persol1<1l shO'wers and
    3      r<Jckers                                                                       G                                    0.5                                                                                                           '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             w
           Bfcyc:le storage (ClasS I) at apartment complexes or                                                                                                                                                                              ...,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,...
    4      con(los v,illlollt gara~s                                                      R                                    (1,5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             a
           EJlUre project is lDCa'le<I \'Iilhill 1/2 mile of an exi"ting                                                               Large Projecll;: A111acllfties rtIusl be   in place !>efore 20% of tile occupancy                        N

           Glass I or Class II bike lalle and provides a comparable                                                                    permils are granled. Small Projects:       All f2cilities must be in place witflin 1-                    n
    5      bikeway connection to tlW existing infIas[ruet\lre                        Re,       M                               1.0     year of start of QUl'>iness.                                                                             H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                >-3
                                                                                                                                       Large Projects: All facililies must be     in place be!(lIe 20% al tI1e occupancy                        ><:
           The projecl provides for pedestrian tacillies and                                                                           permits ale granled. Small Projects:       All f"cililies must be in place within I-
    S      improll8fllerlls sllCh as overpasses and wider sidewaills                   R,C,M                                   1.0     \'ear of start 01 business.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0

           Bus service provides he<ldwa)'S of 15 minu~es or Jess                                                                                                                                                                                :<:
           (1.0) m:m minu!..s or less (0.5) for slapswilhin 114 mile;                                                                                                                                                              '1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (T1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                "'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                :<'
           project provfdes essential bus stop improvaments (i.e.,                                                                                                                                                                 I;'          >-3
    7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           t<
           sheflers, route information, !Jenclles, and liglitinQ).                        C                       1.0,0.5              Maximum combined credit for measuI&#7 and i64 is 2.0                                        I            :<'
           Provide a display case or 1;;<).Sk displaYing: [,ansj}Ortalion
           information In a promlnelll area accessible to emptoyees
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   fTl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ;U           ""
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                t:J

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ;U
    B      or residents                                                                R, C,M                     0.5      In coordination With Yuba-Sutter Transi!                                                                H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <:
           Hfgh denSity resiller>MaJ, mixed, or retaillCQffill1ercfaJ                                        2.0 for light Pla~neli Lnfr<lslructure must be in Geileral Plan, Specific Plan. or                                    rn
           uses within 1/4 mfle'~Il!'XistiIl9 transit,linkingwith                                            rail, 1.0 fm Community Plan. Maximum cradit is 2.0 (Iighl rail and bus p1>inls cannot be                              ::u           ~
    9      a£1ivil'l canlers and otller plenfled infrastwcture                         R.C,M                    bus only combined).                                                                                                  I>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 :J
                                                                                                                         Plan rted transit m ust ~e in Trans it Masierprar>; planned in(ra~trucRJre mus!
           High derlSily resid.mtial, mixed, or retai~lcommercial                                            1.0foriigM be in General Pfan, Specific Plan, or Commullj~fPlan. Maximum credil is
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '<
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   'd
           uses witllin 114 mile 01 planned lransi~ linking wjth                                             rail,O.Sfar 1.0 (Iig~t "'il alld bus; points cannot be combirted), C""nol get points tor                                            t-'
   10      aclivily ",,»ter.:; and oltler planned intr;;slmctul'e                      R.C,M                  bus only both this measure arid measure #9.                                                                                        I>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ~.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    :J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 :..-.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '"  rt"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       'D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       G1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       rn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Q           §I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       en           '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ~


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '"
            Ve";"" LO Ma~ 2004                                                                                                            Prlnl~d 1O,'Q,:!OO6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     =
             Appendix C                                                               FRAQMD Best Available Mitigation Measures wrth Point Values                                                                                        ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        f->              "-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Q                '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         "-

                                                                                           I~ -~
                                                                                                        "tI                                                                                                             cD               N
                                                                                                            t:                                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IS!              '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         00

                                                                                               ~ ~'E
                                                                                               s:
                                                                                               ~
                                                                                                    t: ..
                                                                                                ~ .'"
                                                                                                    5! E
                                                                                                    :
                                                                                                       E "i
                                                                                                  ll::oE
                                                                                                   gun
                                                                                                          .2:5
                                                                                                            0;
                                                                                                                      .
                                                                                                                      ,,-
                                                                                                                  ..2 E
                                                                                                                   "
                                                                                                                  >E
                                                                                                                  ~K
                                                                                                                  '- <II
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IS!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        co
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        f->

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        b
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         :I1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ..
                                        O~s!:rrptiOen                                          C cz::u:;;         £:E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -
    11                                                                                                                                                                          Comments                                 :sJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        co               N




                                                    ... ..·...                        ::.                        ..                                                                                                                      .."
     ... 1t.""·rll:li)U' .                  .   .      .
                                                                 .'
                                                                                                                             .:..                                                                                       /JO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         :Jo'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        to                   X
           EmpkJ.yee andlar cllStomer p"id parking e~stem (no
    11     o"aljdations)                                                                                C             3.0           Must be coordina1ed wi1h Yuba·S Ut/;Jf TMA.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ""
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ~j
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /JO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (}1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             w
    j2     Prnvid" mjnirn~m amount <Jf parKing req~jred                                            C, M               0.5           M"y require dty/count'! vari"nce
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /JO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            =
           Provide parking reduction: Offloo 25%, Medical office                                                                                                                                                         '" '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            w
           8%, CommerciaIS'lIl, Ind~slriaJ 10%" Mdl~onaI10·2a%                                                                                                                                                                               w

    13
           if localed along trafl.Sil station (spec;j,,1 review of parking
           IS requ ired)                                                                           C,M                2.5           May require dtyfOOU!1ty vari"noe or revisl"" to ordinance                                                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N

            Provide-jJra;;s j>a1ling or refleClive surface for unsr,aded                                                             Portland concre1e is [foe pJeferred paving malen·al; "Chip Seal" melfJOdolC}g')'                        0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             H
            parking lot areas, driveways, orfire 'an-as matredu""                                                                    is also prefeJTed; Gr"'en Pavement
            standard brad< "sphart j}aving by 10% OJ more in                                                                         htlp:fJwvNl, invisiblestrm'ILl res,GOmfGP2Igrasspav<>.;"'lm, 1.0 for Portla~d                           '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ""
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0
    14      cOrlsl1Hali,m wilh FRAQMD                                                              R,C,M         1JJ , D,S          ,concrete or Chip Sea': olher approved refloclive or green surfaces 05                                    .."
            Increase parking tot shading by 20% o'er cooe ulilizing                                                                 :In consllltatJon Wltll FRAQMD (low Ozone Formirl<;l Polenlial Shrubs and                                 ,;;
    15      lawpcIlLJIioi1-emitling trees                                                          R,C,M              1.0            Trees)                                                                                                   :I1
                                                                                                                                     Details of facilities' provision must be coord ineled willJ City or County and         .,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :to

    16      Provide eleclric ve hiele charging facilifies                                          R,C,M              1.0
                                                                                                                                     FRAQMD, In<:enllve funding may be avaifaole fw CilylCounly projects from
                                                                                                                                     lheFRAQMD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1',
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -                 '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I:"'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ::r:              :z
            Provroe preferentJaI pniJ"bll for eatll<Jo!fvanpoois                                                                                                                                                            rr;
    17                                                                                                                0,$            IncludIng sjqnage
            Covered carpoollval1poor spaces near tlte entrance to
                                                                                                     C                                                                                                                      ;0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ;0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              "
    18      the buiklino's\                                                                             C             0.5           Jfiduding siollag                                                                         ~
            Loadl~g aJ1d \I~loading f"rilftiss for transit ~Ild                                                                                                                                                               =n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AJ
    19      ca~VvanpDoluselS                                                                            C             0.5           l"ciudlc9 s~fI"ge                                                                                            :;0

            Proje<:l is rocated wj!hin ona mile of a park and ride 101                                                                                                                                                        10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              H                  '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  "
    20      oDera1ed by a mmspotlalioll agency
            Pro~fde a patkinglot design lhat-jneludes c1eal1'j mafke<j
                                                                                                        R             0.5           Fo&ti!r'S public lransil use    tor the WOrkplace commy!e,                                ;v
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '< "
            and shaded pedeshia n pa1llway5 between 1ransit                                                                                                                                                                                       ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '"
    21      facililies and buildill>l aJ1trnnces                                                        C             (l.S          Emphasis on safely and convenience                                                                           '.....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 :oJ
            company control Eo adtle"l' to a 5 minu~e idling poncy.
            AI~o, enfDrce an onsj~e fdiing poricy of 5 minutes or Jess                                                                                                                                                                            "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <!:I

            incllJd'rt9 OlIm pany owned, conlrac:l, VEllldor, altd delivery                                                         FRAW-AD approved wrillEm company polk:y, vendor cofitrsclua1 language,                                         :<:
    22      vehides..                                                                                   C             0.5           oosHa sJgllage and enforcemen! procedures required.                                                          '"r+


,., .:.:: :; ." "<;.e,mm!,J;(i~\ a\-l!!EllJ!g.:tl.e$IW!"· ...         .:... ,   . . '.,.   "   .             :                           ..   '   ..        .   .   .   '   .                      ..

                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ].,
            Jmp!ernenl PG&E "SaVing!; B.. Des[gR" asstslance and                                                                    ·CannollJ5e points forbom thiS measure and #48 (or atlleroverlapping                       Gl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               rrl
            incenlJ\ta prD~,.ms that eIlCOU rage hig~ ~erformance                                                                    measures) IJnless they a,e ~niqLl;Jly diffemnl as dEfterrnined by Ihe
    2J      building design and constn.rclion.                                                      C,M               tbd            FRAQMD; Point values to be d,,~ermined                                                                        I§l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  cs:               <0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ---1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    00
            Selbacll diS1ance is minimized between development                                                                                                                                                                                       ~


    24      and exi!rtina lransit bicvcle, Qr pedestrian corridor                                   C,M               1.0                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     co
             " ..r"'on 1.0 May :0004                                                                                                   Printed 11lJ'9I:1.QCll
         Appendij( C                                                  FRAQMD Best AvailablEl Mitigation Measures with Point Values                                                                              c-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ~
                                                                                                                                                                                              0--'              o
                                                                                                                                                                                              C?
                                                                                                                                                                                              Q                 ""
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                N
                                                                                                                                                                                              co
                                                                                                                                                                                              -'.               o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                o
                                                                           -                                                                                                                  t,J

                                                                                                                                                                                              '"
                                                                                                                                                                                              Q
                                                                                                                                                                                              m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                >,]
                                                                                                1;s                                                                                                             :c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                c
                                                                                                " '"
                                                                                                ~.§                                                                                           1-'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                c-
                                                                                                c '"
                                                                                                -rI>
                                                                                                                                                                                               -"'"             ...
                                                                                                0::0
   #                             OQllcriptlon
                                                                                                ~-
                                                                                                                                               Comm"nts                                        '"
                                                                                                                                                                                               '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                N


                                                                                                           P'anned iran~il, bicycle or pedestrian corridor must be in MTP. RT                                   "J
                                                                                                                                                                                               c;
        Setback distance is min imized wlVleel1 devel<Jpmen!                                                Masterplan, General Plan, aT Community PJan. Cannot gel poinls ror bot"            U                ~
   25   and Jllann..d transit. bicycle, or pedaslliafl co/rider            C,M                  0,5        lfJis me"su'e and measure #24,
                                                                                                                                                                                               '"
                                                                                                                                                                                               -"J
                                                                                                                                                                                               c;               '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                w
                                                                                                                                                                                                co              o

r>';':"l~~!@~n?~~fripmlm,t,,:s<':>;,::
                                     <,i,:':"             ",u';, "),,v,>y:;i,      .,,',~,':,          ',:'."":;:,i,;,:'"   j     '::,                                                          '"               '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 w
                                                                                                     1.5 pOints for7-14           CfUlacre. 30 points Tor 15-29 dulacre, 4,5 poinls for 30+                         w

   26   IAverage residenti-al density 7 d.u, per ilClS (]I" g/e"ter    I       R      11.5,3.0, 4.e Idlllacre                                                                                                       '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    c-
                                                                                                           FlJjlCredflror internal connectivity [<iclor reF):= 0.70, and average 1/4 mire                           o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N
                                                                                                           or less baNiEllln external conneclions. {CF'= # 01 inle'$eclions I (# of cut·de-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ()
   27   Mumple and dired street routing ~grfd $tyle)                       R.C,M                2.5        sacs ... 'In1e~ectio~s~J                                                                                 H
        Granny Flats - Have af1oifiaryi'gml1f1~ unitS" {requires                                                                                                                                                    >,]

        .s
         pedal Dewlopmenl Permi! but no Accessory Slruclure                                                                                                                                                         "'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    o
   2B   Use Parmj!}                                                            R                1.1)                                                                                                                ."

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                     TJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                     TJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                     I>              t"'
                                                                                                                                                                                                     --I
                                                                                                                                                                                                     I               ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                     r'l             tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ;0
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ;>J
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                     :A:                ;0
                                                                                                                                                                                                     r:,              '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                      H
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ;Q             '<
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        'd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        f-'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1 "'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IT




                                                                                                                                                                                                         "1J
                                                                                                                                                                                                         P
                                                                                                                                                                                                         G)
                                                                                                                                                                                                         TTl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        t§;J
                                                                                                                                                                                                          :s:             o
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0:'             o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ~

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           c-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           oo
         V"'''Qn 1.6 May 2QO~                                                                                 Prinled 101912008
                     AppenalX G                                                     FRAQMD Best Available Mitigation Mealiures with Point Values                                                                                                     >-"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      >-'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      "-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ill


                                                                                                    ...                                                                                                                               ""
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N

                                                                                         !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      cO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     =
                                                                                         ... - .
                                                                                                    <:                                                                                                                                '~
                                                                                                    S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      m              =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <:0


                                                                                          "
                                                                                               ",.-
                                                                                              :;::2                                                                                                                                   C'9            ..,
                                                                                                     ~~
                                                                                          G


                                                                                          ~ ~ r5l >E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CD
                                                                                               C    '"                                                                                                                                               tIl


                                                                                         Ii ~ Q.~
                                                                                          >  o::u:!i
                                                                                               II
                                                                                                     -.-'"
                                                                                                    JI    II
                                                                                                                           '"

                                                                                                                            ><
                                                                                                                           <:
                                                                                                                           ,-
                                                                                                                                ::l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .p.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      >-"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     '"
       #                                   Description                                   ~    frO:!,!                      ~~                                                     CDmments                                            i3:1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       m              N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N




':':, :::,: ~ ::',: N:li«~i19'il.::,j>."      :.:' c",       .....                   ,                         .   ,                                          '     '   '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       U"\
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .".
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      "'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      :J>

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ~"             en
                    Devaklpment of projects preclomirlanily cllaracterized by                                                                                                                                                          CD             w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,]0
                    properlies on Which various U~ such as of1r<::e,                                                                                                                                                                                  =
                    cnmmercia I. insliluliol1al. and residential, am combined                                                                                                                                                          ""             rn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      w
                    in s single bulkling Of an a ~in9le site. A "single site"                                                             Cannol gel pajrlts for both tl1 is measure and any "Cnnveniencs Services"                                   w
      29            may include Gonli(1llo!JS prap.etites.                            M                                     3.0           measures. Also "lutualiv eXclti5lV" wittl #30,                                                              ill
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         e-"
                    Partial Mixed Use Credit Have at least 3 of 111" fallowing                                                                                                                                                                         =
                    on sire ancllar wirhin 1/4 mile: Resklential Developmenl,                                                                                                                                                                          N

                    Retail Development, Personal SeMces. Open Space.                                                                      Cannolgsl points for both tI1is meas~re and any "CMver;ience Se rv'C9S"                                        (0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         H
      30            Office                                                                                                                measures, Also mutually excJCJsi.e wilh 1t29.
                                                                                  , R,C,M                                   1.0                                                                                                                          >-3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ><:
                    Nighbolhood &erving as focal !,olnl wilh !Jo<IJ1<S. scll<H:l1
      31            aoo cloiic t/5le9 Within 1/4 mile                                R,M                                    a.s           Does nol have to         t>e a mixed use proJe::1 to appry Inrs meas~re.                                       0
                    Separ<lte, :sate, and'<:<lfiVenienl bicycle and pedestrian                                                                                                                                                                           "'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         :;:
                    palhs connecting residenliaJ, oommerciaf, and offioe                                                                                                                                                                                   tIl
      32            uses                                                            R,C,M                                   2,0           Goes not n9ve to be a mix.e-d use project to apply lhi-s measure,                                                l'J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -r;                :J>
                    Tile 11I()jec! provWes a devalopmerll patlEm lIlal                                                                                                                                                                  iT,                >-3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        J:'                t-'
                    elimina!es physical barrier;; SlIcil as. walls, berms,                                                                                                                                                              -I                 :J>
                    landscaping, and slopes betM3e~ residenlial and l1on·                                                                                                                                                               fj                 Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           tJ
                    residential uses lhal impede-bicycle or pedestrian                                                                                                                                                                      ::u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            :;0
      33            circulaoo~                                                                R,C,M                         1,0           Does nol have'" be a mFxed use praje'" to apply this meastJ""
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            iT',
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ::0              ~
                                                                                                                                ..
                   :. ~'?~~l)if;!i'!ff.8e,"'!i~AA:' <·<·F                                                                                   :',                                                                                                             'P"
                                                                                                                                      ,

    :-""     ~,:
                                                                                                                                                          "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ]~
.                                                                    : ... c,' .', . : ". ,                            "       ::                                           "
                                                                                                                                                                                         ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .'   .   ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            H                (ll
                    Day care faGilitioo ala proVided on sile arwitllin 1/4 mile                                        1.$ Onsile;                                                                                                          ::D            '<:
      J4            ofsile                                                                    R.C,M                    O.SOft'site
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             r"

      35            Reslau....nr or cafeteria 011 site 01 within 1/4 mile of site             R,C,M                         0.2                                                                                                                                "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             '....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P
       36           Ballk 01 ATM on site or ".I";n 1/4 mile of site                           R,C,M                         0.2                                                                                                                               p
      '37           Dry ,*",ners on sirs or wirhin 1/4 mile oj .site                                                                                                                                                                                        "'<
                                                                                              R,C.M                         0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ;<:.
       31>          Post office on 91te or within 114 mila of site                            R.C.M                         ().Z
                    Entertainment (m{l'IilllVideoJ M sjle or wi1hin 1/4 mile of                                                                                                                                                                                ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             "'<

      39            Skte                                                                      R.C,M                         Cl.2
                    ReCleation facillty/film.as cenler an site or wlthin1/4 mile
      40            ofsile                                                                    R,C,M                         0.2                                                                                                              "lJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1:·
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Gl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                "" =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  r"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ~

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   r"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <:0

                    Vernlan UlMar 2004                                                                                                      F'rlnled 10/gro;\J1l                                                                  4
                     Appell d jx C                                            FRAQMD Best Avaiiab!e Mitigation Measures with Point Values                                                                    ~

                                                                                                                                                                                                             C>
                                                                                                                                                                                         f--'
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ......
                                                                                                                                                                                         l3)
                                                                                                                                                                                         .......             ..,
                                                                                                                                                                                                             C>


                                                                                                                                                                                         CO)                 ......
                                                                                                                                                                                         ,j]                 "-'
                                                                                                                                                                                         ....··c             C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                             C>

                                                                                                                                                                                         '" =
                                                                                                                                                                                         ~
                                                                                                                                                                                         ~
                                                                                             ,,~                                                                                         OJ                   >-3
                                                                                                                                                                                                              :c
                                                                                            '" "
                                                                                            ~~                                                                                           t·_,
                                                                                                                                                                                                              c

                                                                                            c 'a                                                                                          ..
                                                                                                                                                                                          A                   >-"
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ""
             If.                             Des criptkln                                   °2
                                                                                            a..~                                     Comments
                                                                                                                                                                                          (S)
                                                                                                                                                                                          (S)                  "-'
                                                                                                                                                                                                               "-'

                                                                                                                                                                                                               "l
                   .IB~!rih~!lC!iEi~OIi&!lt:~(la~lii'kl'                                                                                                                                  en
..   ~   .                                                  '   .....             ....:..                                                                                                  Cu
                                                                                                                                                                                           .p.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ~
                                                                                                                                                                                           --J                 U1
         ..1 IJns!ail lowesl emitting commercially available rirelliace              R       1.0                                                                                           en                  w
                                                                                                                                                                                           en                  C>
         421lnstall Tcl~l emilling oommercia Ir"available fume'!:e               R,C,M       0,5                                                                                           (S)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                rn
              InslaH ozone destRlclion-cataJys! on all ",;,-oondmoning                                                                                                                                          W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                W
         43 Isystem"                                                             R,C,M       2.5    In C>Gnsul!alion with FRAQM 0
                    IIlsfall EPA EMrgy Star approved roofing malenals or                            NOle: #49 anil this measure may overlap; if both used then lbd-:-Erergy Slar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ..,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 >-"
         44        Iinstall"Green Roof' T.chnolog~                                  C        G.S    Info: htlp:lll'iWW.eJ1ergyslar.govl                                                                         <>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,~


         40        rProvide fiber oplf~wfrill9 and connec!iollS                  R,C,M       0.5
         45        IPJovide-T1 wiring all£! oonniletJons                         R, C, M     0-5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  H
         47        II""tall roof pholovoltaic energy svslems                        R        0,5    2.5 i/ offered as a standard "'~t" re on an hames                                                             >-3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ><
                    Inn6vallve ~nergy-Efficfent 'iechnof6gies or measures                           Cann~fllse:pofnts for both this measureaod #23, or olhetoverJapping
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                    excsedlr1g Title 24 energy efficiency slalld"rds by 10%                         measllres, lInless they are ~njquely different as determined by FRAQMD',
         48        lor more                                                      R,C,M       tlJd   Point vallI"" 10 be delerm ined                                                                               '"
         49
                    Camp~{Mth EPNDOE Energy Slar Hortle energy
                   IstaJ1dards                                                       R       1.0    Cannot gel points for bolh Ihis measure and lhe above meaS!Jle.                           '1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ''""
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      :c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      :P
                                                                                                                                                                                              rn                      >-3
                                                                                                    DrieiiITtie placement afTr'ees and shrubs near tlle Duirding to shade the                 1>                      t"'
                                                                                                                                                                                              -1                      :P
                    Orient 75 or more parrent of homes and/or buildings to                          building, cool lhe soil E1nd area around the buildlng, and redu"" direct solar            :r:                     z
                                                                                                    radialion lrom enlsring the building thmugh wfll<lQWS and from heating                      fTl                   t:J
                    fare either noM or S<:lllth (wilhin 30 dagrees of NIS),                                                                                                                     ;u
         50        land include sllruhll/ea shading masterplall                      R       0,5    external building slrucrures.                                                               ;u
                                                                                                                                                                                                H

                                                                                                                                                                                                ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                ;u                     ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ]':>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   H                   '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        "
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ;u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '-<
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       'd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ",.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                       "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       :<:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       rt-




                                                                                                                                                                                                    U
                                                                                                                                                                                                    J,'
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                     "1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1§1
                                                                                                                                                                                                       """
                                                                                                                                                                                                       (S)                  '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            >-"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            >-"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            >-"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            00

                     Ve.r.taM 1,0 Ma~ 2004                                                             Printed 101912008                                                             ·
              AppenC1iX G                                                  FRAQMD BestAvailable Mitigation Measures with Point Values                                                                                              ~

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 >-'               "-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ~'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '<l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <Sl               "-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N

                                                                             ....
                                                                                            "0

                                                                                            5:; =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 UJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '--               =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   =
                                                                             .... ;; .~
                                                                              c:.,u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ci)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <Sl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   co
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   >-3
                                                                              .. c:
                                                                                                          ~e
                                                                                             L                                                                                                                   (1]

                                                                              E.g            ~",         -     :::I                                                                                                                '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   c
                                                                              Q ....
                                                                             -; ~ 0 ,~
                                                                                             E Cl)       ~
                                                                                                         ..... E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 >-'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ....
                                                                              >ccol!!
                                                                              ~ II II It                 .~ ~
                                                                                                              ~x                                                                                                 -I'-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ('oJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ...
/I-                                 Description                              ac:u':;;                    c.                                               Comments                                                <Sl               N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N




          tP?Ma':ld~Ii;i,:,-l\J~.&J;l~·
                                                                                    ,-, .... ,                                                                                                                    en  "'            ~
      :                                            ,,::;
           mclijde pelll1anent TMA membership a"d 1u11ding
                                                                                        ,   ~"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ld
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -." '"            U\
            requi,,,mer2!. Funding 10 be provided by Community                                                                                                                                                    :n                W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  :n                =
           Facififies Dislricl Or Co~nly Service Area or other non·                                                   Join Yuba-Su~er Transportation Management Association. Contact Mr. 8ill                     esc,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0>
51        lrevo<:able funding mewanism.                                         R,C, M                       2.5      FeilDlim, Ph"ne: [53(}) 669-1446, Emei!: DilJ@yoIOIm",.org                                                    W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LU
52        ,carpllOJ Matching Mlsislanee                                           C                          0.2      Must be co"roi~a[ed wft]) TMA
            Pm"ide financial inoenlives to carpoofers (arvehicle                                                                                                                                                                    '"'~

53        llune-up or mainleJ1ar,ce                                                 R. C, M                  0.2      Musl be coordinated wjlh TMA.                                                                                 o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N
            Pmvld.. Flextime for non·SOV (sillQ Ie OCetll'ancy
                                                                                                                      Milel be Goordinaled wilil TMA                                                                                   n
54        Ivel'llele) commuters                                                             C                0.2                                                                                                                       H
          IPlovide ~lIaranlseo:l Ride Home
55"
:55
                                                                                            C                0.2
                                                                                                             0.2
                                                                                                                      Must be coordinated wiln TMA.
                                                                                                                      Must he c:oordi~ated with TMA.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ""
          !lml'lement compre.esed work v,eeK schedules                                   ~                                                                                                                                             o
            Pro,llde on-site Employ,,*, Transjl«tation CooroiTlalorto                                                                                                                                                                   "1
57        lwork wilil TMA                                                       R,C,M                I       0.2      Musl bs GDordillatecJ wilh r,\lIA
           Confracfon~1with commercial landscapers who operale                                                                                                                                                                          iii
            Willl equipment lhat complies wilh the m<llli rece~t                                                                                                                                                       TJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       fTl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ~
            CaliforniaNr Resouroes Boam certilication standards,                                                                                                                                                       l~.:-             t"'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       --I
           lor slanaards adopted no more t~.n three years prio, to                                                                                                                                                     I                 ~
58        Idate of LIse.                                                                    c        I       3·~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       fTl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ;1J               "
            M'Ke jJhysl~I developm ent consislenlwith                                                                                                                                                                  O'C

                                                                                            ~
59        [requirements lor neighborhood eleclric vehicles                                                                                                                                                             !--I

60        Unstan vldet><Xlnferencr!':9 system                                         C"M    0.5                                                                                                                       ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ;1J               :0
            PriimolB-!eifeworklng alld implement an empJoyee
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I==-             '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          "
                                                                                      c~
61        lleleworll pofJc;y                                                                                                                                                                                            H                <D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ;l)              '<:
            Provide free-aocess tele\lIOrk [llrminais in mulli-{all1iiy
62        Iflrojects                                                                        R                1.0      At least aile telfl1jnal per 100 epaitmenls                                                                          'd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           t-'
                                                                                                                      Exampl<!5C USi1l9 elec[ric or 100.v:emission i1ght-dUtyfteet vehicles,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '1"-"
            In conslll1Sticn wiih FRAQMD~ Implement Clean Ai,
                                                                                                                      contreating with alt<!rnative-flJel wasla haulrng camj>anies, conbacting with
                                                                                                                      ca,rier, delrlllfy. secll,ily, or other services utitJzing elecl'ic, row~ernissfon,                                 "
            Business PraC'tires. Adopted company policylprocedure                                                     alternative fuer, or utilizing heavy~duty vehicles tha! are CAR El cerutTed to                                      "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         '"
63        r or cDnuactL!al documentation requi'ed                                     G                      Ibn      oplional '<:1-IV-emisslon s13ndards for NOx,                                                                        :<:
64        IProvide electric shullle to tral1s[t stops                               R,C,M                    2.0      Maximum combined credit for measure #7 and 1!64 is 2.0                                                             '" IT

            Prol/roe-a complimentary rordless electric Isp.Ynmo\Ver tll
65        reach residential buyer                                                           R                2.0
            Provide an cppcrtu~ity 10 recei"e eitner a comptJmelltary                                                                                                                                                     -u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ]~
            bicycle or electric bicycle retrofi1 kit to eaan residential                                                                                                                                                    G)
66        fbuyer                                                                            R                0.5                                                                                                            fTl
            rrallsit pass SUbsidy andlor commute "rtemative                                                                                                                                                                                I§;J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            f-'>
67        l eltowa nee                                                                      c                1.5      Po in! vafue baseG on 100% subsidy.                                                                   >-'               =~

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '-..
            tI","W'outy; D;i,¥,olyeh rd~l"lee~ 1"14; Q~JJ :11:>S'.!,lr.~
          !
          , V~Jlr¢ f<i~fil~: ."':.. ,,'. ... . ' .'. .
              VoO'lon1.0 Mo>y2DD4                                                                                        Piinied IClf9J20Da                                                                 "-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               =
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               co
         AppenaiX C                                                    FRAQMD Best Available MilJ,gation Measures with Point Values                                                                              ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 co
                                                                                                                                                                                                t--'             "'-
                                                                                                                                                                                                l'J              co
                                                                                                                                                                                                ~.
                                                                                                                                                                                                0)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 "'-
                                                                                     -g                                                                                                         U)               N

                                                                            ...      :;;
                                                                                                                                                                                                ~'-



                                                                                                                                                                                                '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 co
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 co

                                                                            ~ j'~                                                                                                                                '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                ( S>
                                                                                                  OJ _                                                                                          [S.
                                                                            ~ 0::; ~                                                                                                            co               ..."
                                                                            E 4J ~         '1:J
                                                                                                  .= E                                                                                                           '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 c::
                                                                                                  ~::I
                                                                            c'i ~~                 ~.s                                                                                          t--'

                                                                            >OI:u2
                                                                                   n: n    tl
                                                                                                  .5 ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                .D-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ...
                                                                                                  ~::;;
                                                                            Ill:                                                                                                                ei
   Ii                            09Seriptr<ln                               C El:J.)       2                                               Cl>mm~nts                                        i    l'J              N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N

         RepcwarfRelrolft .heaVY-duty diesel fleet with cleaner                                                                                                                                                   ..,
  68
         diesel engin.. technology andlor diesel paItictlJale filler
        'after-lreatrneJ1t techn(),ogy                                  \          G. M           tbd
                                                                                                          Local and Slate in;;enUve funds may be available. Careu'ale emission
                                                                                                          reductions based an spedfic technology used.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                 C'J
                                                                                                                                                                                                 -"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ;:;
                                                                                                                                                                                                  --J
         Replace dieseillee! will1alle-mative ruel engine                                                 local and State inooilfJve fund's may be available CalC<JJafe emission                 0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                 0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  w
  69    Itechnolog~andinlras~ructtlro                                   I          C, M           tbd     reductions based on speciflc_lecfmo!ogy used.                                           (S>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  o

         Replace !Iuxnliary-pcrwer LJnit:S wiill clealler en9lne                                                                                                                                                   '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   w
         Iedtnology. alternative fuals. Or require electric                                               Local and Slafe in"","!ive kJnds may be available CalcuJara emission                                     w
  70    Icol1l1eclion whire at laadjnQ dook                             I          C. M           tbd     reductfuns basad at) specirrc technu!ogy used.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     o
";.: :' !td~i~ftn f'!Mfnil:                        .;~ :-~.--~->..   ·~--~.n                                                                                                                                         N


                                                                                                          Planned il1h'aslfUctLJre mLlst be in the General, Specific. or Cornm unity Plan                            o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     H
         Conmbute rullding to Ifm FRAQMD Pedeslrian/BiCYCle                                               or Master Bike pran or approved tiy FRAQMD and appricaDla county/city                                      >-3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ><:
  96    /Inlrastroclure Program                                                R.C.M              t1J<l   planning staff.
         Buy do·.Yi1diaiielfleetem;ssi<ms by jmprementlng, or                                                                                                                                                        ..,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     o
         proViding fU11ds [0 FRAQMD (0 im pleme~t. an offslle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      :e
         Carl Moyer or Motor VelPide Fund program (<lr                                                    Guidelines to be developed an<J approved by Ihe FRAQMD Bllard of
  97    lequivalent) at a per lon cosllo ~e determined.                            C,M            tbd     Oirectol'S_                                                                              '1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      "'~
                                                                                                                                                                                                   fTl                  >-3
         Provide fundin~ amltor rOO-OllfCes ior a Palk ani! ~i<Je                                                                                                                                  1"                   t"
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ~
  91l   ILot                                                                   R,C.M              !l.S    In coordinaRon IVlIh YST,A. YSTMA. and FRAQMO                                                                 ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                   :r'                  Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                   1r l                 o
                                                                                                                                                                                                       AJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ;u
                                                                                                                                                                                                       H

                                                                                                                                                                                                       ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ;0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         :<>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IV
                                                                                                                                                                                                       V                 ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                       H                 (b
                                                                                                                                                                                                       AJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '<
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ."
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ~

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         $
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           rt'




                                                                                                                                                                                                           -0
                                                                                                                                                                                                           1"
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Mi
                                                                                                                                                                                                           r-'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          [§I
                                                                                                                                                                                                           I'J                ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              w
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              "'-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              co
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ro
         Version '.0 May 20[)4                                                                              Pri.1ed 1(b'9iZOOa
                                                                                                   1lJ014/018
 10/09/2008 THU 14: 22                FAX 530 533 9102 CITY OF WHEATLAND   ~~~ Raney Planing Mgt

                                      53471>50                    FEATIIER RI'£R AIR
       10/09/2088        14:00




                           ~-


                                           '.::

                                          ';.
                                      I;
                                             ...'




 ..
 f/)

 ::I                                      .,

"iii

-                               ~
                                      '     ..
>                               Ol    I
 <::                             E
"0
D-
                                E
                                O            i
...
..c:
'§
                                U
                                      .' .
                                           :,

                                           ··
                                                :
                                                0




 ~
::I

'"
m                                                                                                               ;g
::i
0
 c:                                             .
                                                                                                                ~
T;                                                                                                              ]j
,gl                                                                                                             c
~                                                                                                               il:
2:
 (l)
                                          ::+--
::0
J!
'l6               tlUllWllCRIi\t/

~                 ~"Iel\   .U!Od            .,:            "
                                                           £!

.
r,;
lD
Q
                     P")(!W~W
                                      ;,'
                                                     I--
                                                           :2
          PUl/llt/O'''WW03=::>
::;,          f1!!tUQII!II"'tI;:;~
                                                           c.5
cr                                        ",:,::           ri
~         8CXllUlIWOtll"""a
                                          ;<c-
lJ.,
                                           ".';
                                                     ::;
                                      1< ~
                                      "
                                                     ;S
                                          iii
                                      ,·:;2          .
                                 r:
                                      :]
                                .S!   ~'('           :!!
                                'E.
                                ';:   ,""."          ~~
                                                     -:0
                                "
                                ~                    ~t
                                      l!i ,lg'l)
                                      ... ~ '"
                                                     "'LL

                                                                                                                g
                                      ""
u
.,
.~
                                      :  ij,~
                                      11;!
                                         '" "'       (>    c:
                                                                                                                '"
                                                                                                                ~
                                       g!' l:i.(U
C                                     ~: Eli:                                                                   '"
ll>                                   ~, Q.k>
a.
Q.
                                      ,,,, ~oc       ~
                                                                                                                ~
                                                                                                                c
                                                                                                                .~

0;(
                                      !: 08                                                                     ~
                                          -.:


                                          : .. ~.,
                                                           '"
                                                           '"
                                                                                                        141015/018
                            FAX 530 633 9102 CITY OF WHEATLAND          ~~~ Raney Planing Mgt
10/09/2008 THU 14: 23

                                                        FEATHER RIVER AIR                        PAGE    l~
  10/09/2008     14:00       5347550




               RULE 3. 17 WOOD STOVE HEATrNG          iAdopl"" (,/961


            A.       DEFINITIONS

                     A.l      EPA-certified wood heating device means                     any \'fQod
                              or other solid-fuel-burning appliance utilized
                              tor space or water heating or cooking that is
                              certified by the u.s. Environmental Protection
                              Agency (EPA) as meeting       the performance and
                              emission standards as set forth in Part 60, Title
                              40, Subpart AAA Code of Federal Regulations,
                              ~ebruary 26, 1988:
                                   Phase I appliances must meet the emission
                                   requirements of no more than 5.5 grams per
                                   hour    particulate-matter    emission   for
                                   catalytic   and  8.5  grams   peL-  hour for
                                   non~atalytic appliances.


                                       PhaseIT appliances must meet the emission
                                     requirements of no more than 4.1 grams per
                                    hour      particulate-matter        emission     for
                                     catalytic    and    7.5   grams    per   hour   for
                                     noncatalytic appliances.
                     A.2      Fir~place means any permanently installed masonry
                              or factory built device designed to be used with
                              an air-to~fuel ratio greater than or equal to 35-
                              to-I.      Fireplaces installed with a dedicated
                              natural gas or propane connection under the
                              Uniform Building Code Section 3707(n) and not
                              covertible to solid fuel. appl iances are exempt
                              from the requirements of this Rule.
                     A.3      Insert.   DeviC!Q    means    any EPA      Phase   II   or
                              equivalent      wood-heating      device      specifically
                              designed     to    convert     an    open     uncontrolled
                              fireplace to a useful wood-heating device .
                     .
                     A .4     Oregon-Certified means any wood heater ce:r:tified
                              by the State of Oregon as meeting the performance
                              and emissj.on standa:cds set forth in Sections 100
                              thr.ough. 190 of Chapter. 340, Divi.sion 21, Oregon
                              Administrative Rules.
                     lL 5     l?ellet-Fueled Wood Eeate:t' .means any wood heater
                              that operates on pellet wood or other solid fuel
                              and is either EPA certified or is ex:empt under
                              EPA ,r.equirements as _set forth in Part - 60, Title
                              40, Subpart AAA Code of Federal Regulations,
                              February 26, 1988.
                                                                     ~~~   Ranev_ Planing Mgt          IilI016)018
10(09)2008 THU 14: 23         FAX 530 633 9102 CITY 0 F WHEATLAND

                                                             FI:.ATHER RIVER AIR                PAGE    15
  10/09/2008        14:00     53475bI'J




                        A.6     Pe:rmanently Inoperable means modiF.ied in such a
                                way that a device can no longer operate as a wood
                                 heater.
                        A.7     Person     means     <;Jny    person,   Olssociation,
                                                                            fj.rm,
                                organization,         partnership,
                                                                 bUsiness     trust,
                             corporation,     company     contractor,      supplier,
                             installer,     user,     owner,   sts.te     DC   local
                             governmental agency or pubLic distr.ict, or any
                             officer or employee ther.eof.
                        A.8 Solid Fuel 1\.ppliancli!s means any fireplace OJ; wood
                             heater that burns wood,         coal,   or. any other
                             nongaseous or nonliquid fuels, Or any similar
                             device burning any so11d fuel, used as a water:
                             heater or for aesthetic or space-heating purposes
                             in    a     private     residence     or     commercial
                             establishment, VJhich has a heat input less 't.han
                             one million BritiSh thermal units per hour.
                        A.9 Used Wood Heat.i.ng- DE!!vice means any wood beater
                             that h;;lS been used at least cnce, except wood
                             heaters that have been used by retailers for the
                             purpose of demonstration.
                        A.10 Wood Cook Stove means any wood'-burning appliance
                             designed   primarily fo.1.    cooking    food with                  Q


                             separate oven for cooking or baking which is
                             conta1ned in and is an integ~al part of the bOdy
                             of the appliance.
                        A.l1 Wood-Heati.ng Device means any enclosed appliance
                             capable of burn:.ng I.ood O.t: other solid fuel and
                             intended for space heating or domestic water
                             heating.    This term does not include fi;z;eplaces
                             or wood cook stoves.

               B.       BEQUrFtEMENTS

                        B.l     All wood-heating devices used for the f.irst time
                                in existing buildings and those used in aJ.l new
                                residential   and  commercial  building  proj eets
                                constructed after the effective date of this rule
                                within   the  boundaries  of  Feather River Air
                                Quality Management District shall meet emission
                                and per.fOrDanCe requirements equivalent to EPA
                                Phase II devices as set forth in Part 60 , Title
                                40,  Subpart AAA Code of Federal Regulations,
                                February 26, 19&8.
                        B.2     No  person shall cause or allow mate,rials to be
                                burned in a fireplace Or wood-heating device such
                                that the d1scharge of air contaminants would
                              FAX 530 633 9102 CITY OF WHEATLAND   ~~~ Raney Planing Mgt          141017/018
10/09/2008 THU 14: 23

                                                          FEATHER RIVER AIR                PAGE    lEo
  10/09/2008        14:00     5347650




                                cause a pUblic nuisance,        pursuant to Section
                                41700 of the California Health and Safety Code.
                        B.3     No person shall sell, offer for sale, supply,
                                install, or transfer a used wood heating device
                                unless it meets one of the following criteria:
                                a.   I t is ce.r.tiUed by the EPA as meeting the
                                     perforn,ance and emission sta.ndards as set
                                     fo:rth in Pad 60, Title 40, Subpart A1lJ!., Code
                                     of federal B.egula-::'ions, February 26, 1988;
                                     or it iB certified by the Oregon Department
                                     of Environmental Quality        as meeting the
                                     performance and emission stOlndards set forth
                                     in SecUons 100 through 190 of Chapter 340,
                                     Division 21, Oregon }\dministrative Rules.
                                b.   It .i.s exempted from certification by the
                                     EPA.
                                c.   It is a pellet-fueled wood heater.
                                d.   It has been rendered p~rmanently inoperable
                                     as determined by the Air Pollution Control
                                     Officer.
                                Section B. 3 shall not apply to an existing wood
                                heating device which is permanently installed in
                                a structure which is being offered for sale.
                        B.4     The A.ir pollution Control Officer may issue an
                                advisory through local communications mediOl to
                                voluntarily curtaj_l the use of uncertifj.ed solid
                                fuel appliances whenever conditions within the
                                Distrj.ct are projected to Cause ambient air
                                quality concentrations of inhalable particulate
                                matter (PMIO) that exceed 60 micrograms per cubi.c                             ,.
                                meter.                                                                         i
               C.       ENFOR.Ci:MENT

                        Col     Noncompliance with any part of this 'Rule shall be
                                considered to be a violation of a District
                                regulation and subj eet the violator to a civil
                                penalty of up to one thousand dollars ($1, 000)
                                per day in which a violation occurs (Health and
                                Safety Code Section 42402).
                        C.2     Any    person  who  negligently   emits   an   air
                                contaminant 1n violation of this Rule shall be
                                liable for a civil penalty of up to fifteen
                                thou.sand dollars ($15, 000) pa"" day in which a_
                                violation occurs (Health and safety Code section
                                42402.l).
10/09/2008 THU 14: 23      FAX 530 633 9102 CITY OF WHEATLAND   444   Raney Planing Mgt          1ll018/0l8

  18/09/2008     14:08     D347bS0                    FEATHER RT'·JER AIR                 PAGE   17




            D.      EFFECTIVE DATE

                     D.l    This Rule shall become effective June 3, 1996.

           E.       APPLICABILITY

           E.1 The provisions of this rule shall apply at all
           elevations within the Feather River Air Quality Management
           District.
                                                                                                                     IillOOl/003
09/1112008     THU 15: 59    FAX 530    633 9102 CITY OF WHEATLAND          ~-- Raney Planing Mgt


   STATE OF CALIFORNIA

    NATIVE AMERICAN HERITAGE COMMISSION
   915 CAPITOL MALl, ROOM 364
   SACRAMENTO. CA 95814
   (916) 653-4082
   (916) 657-5390 - Fax


                                                     September 9/ 2008
                                  RECEIVED
   Tim Raney
   City of Wheatland             $EP 111008
   313 Mllin Street                    erN Of
   Wheatland, CA 95692               WHEP,iLAND


    RE:       SCH# 200$082127 Annexation of the Johnson Rancho and Hop Farm Properties; Yuba County.


    Dear Mr. Raney:

            The Native American Heritage Commission (NAHC) has reviewed the Notice of preparation (NOP)
   referenced above. The California EnVironmental Quality Act (CEQA) states that any project that causes a
   substantial adverse change in the significance of an historical resource, which includes archeological resources,
   is a significant effect requiring the preparation of an EIR (CEQA Guidelines 15064(b)). To comply with thiS
   provision the lead agency is required to assess whether the project will have an adverse impact on historical
   resources within the area of project effect: (APE), and if so to mitigate that effect. To adequately assess and
   mitigate project-related impacts to archaeological resourCes, the NAHC recommends the following actions:

    ./    Contact the appropriate Information Center for a record search to determine:
                   If ail or a part of the APE has been preViously surveyed for cultural resources.
                   If any known cultural resources have already been recorded on or adjacent to the APE.
               ·   If the probability is low, moderat\'!!, or high that cultural resources are located in the APE.
                   If a survey is reqUired to determine whether previousiy unrecorded cultural resources are present.
    ,/    If an archaeological inventory survey is required, the final stage is the preparation of a professional report
          detailing the findings and recommendations of the reCords search and field survey.
                   The final report containing site forms, site Significance, and mitigation measurers should be
                   submitted immediately to the planning dep<lrtment. All information regarding site locations, Native
                   American human remains, and associi\ted funerary objects should be in a separate confidential
                   addendum, and not be made available for pubic disclosure.
                   The final written report shouid be submitted within 3 months after work has been completed to the
                   appropriate regional archaeological Information Center.
    ,/    Contact the NAHC for a Sacred Lands File Check (SFL).
                  SFL Check Complmd. 9/S/08. indicating potenti·· i!DAicts t9 tlAHC Sitt! No, n-lfub.2(),
                  W!'!UtlIOO Midden &ItA. Whpt,."d q....dr.na!c!, townlhip ... nOrt", range 5 Mst. whjcb i.
                  'Iso' known arctaJlolegiq! &lte CA-VUI-Z!j1.
                  PJe<lse contact Donak! Storm, P. O. Box 552, Oregon House, CA 95962, telephone number (916)
                  692-1884 to determine if your project will impact this site. Also attached is a Native American
                  Contacts list for Yuba County.

                  The absence of specific site information in the Sacred Lands File does not indicate the .bsence of
                  cultural resources in any project area. Other sources of cultural resources should als\) be contacted
                  for information regarding known and recorded sites (see below).                    .
    .(    Cont.ct the NAHC for a list of appropriattl Nlltive American Contacts for consultation concerning the project
          site and to assist in the mitigation measures.
               ·  Native Ameriqn c;pntac;m List attached
                  The NAHC makes no recommendation or preference of a single indIvidual, or group over another.
                  This list should provide a starting place in locating areas of potential adverse impact within the
                  proposed project area. I suggest you contact all of those indicated, if they cannot supply
                  information, they might recommend other with specific knowledge. If a response has not been
                  received within two weeks of notification, the Commission requests that you follow-up with a
                  telephone call to ensure that the project information has been received. ]f you receive notification
                  of change of addresses and phone numbers from any these individuals or groups, please notify me.
                  With your assistance we ilre able to assure that our lists contain current information.            .
                                                         Page 1 of2
09/11/2008 THU 15: 59       FAX 530 633 9102 CITY OF WHEATLAND             4   __   Raney Planing Mgt               1lI002/003




       Lack of surface evidence of archeological resources does not preclude their subsum.ce existence. Lead
    agencies should lnelude in their mitigation plan:
           Provisions for the identification and evaluation of accidentally discovered archeological resources, per
           CEQA GuideHnes §t5064.5(f).
           Provisions for monitoring all ground-disturbing activities in areas of identified archaeological sensitivity
           by a archaeologist meeting the professional qualifications as defined in the in the Secretary of the
           Interior's Standards and GUidelines for archaeology and a culturally affiliated Native American monitor.
           Provisions for the curation of recovered artifacts, per CEQA GUidelines 15126.4(S)(b)(3)(C), in
            consultation with culturally affiliated Native Americans.
           Provisions for discovery of Native American human remains. Health and Safety Code §70S0.5, CEQA
            Guidelines §lS064.5(e), and Public Resources Code §5097.98 mandates the process to be followed in
           the event of an accidental discovery of any human remains in a location other than a dedicated
           cemetery.

                                                     Sincerely,



                                                      ~~du-Y
                                                     Katy Sanchez
                                                     Program Analyst
                                                     (916) 653-4040


    CC:     State Clearinghouse




                                                        Page 2 of2
 09/11/2008 THU 15,59                 FAX 530 633 9102 CITY OF WHEATLAND                      ~-- Raney Planing Mgt                  [4]003/003


                                             Native American Contacts
                                                      Yuba County
                                                    September 8,2008


Maidu Nation                                                                  Enterprise Rancheria of Maidu Indians
Clara LeCompte                                                                Glenda Nelson, Chairperson
P.O Box 204                                     Maidu                         1940 Feather River Blvd., Suite B Maidu
Susanville             , CA 96130                                             Oroville               , CA 95965
                                                                              er;~nch @cncnet.com
                                                                              (530) 532-9214
                                                                              (530) 532~1768 FAX


Butte Tribal Council                                                          Strawberry Valley Rancheria
Ren Reynolds                                                                  Robert Kerfoot
1693 Mt. Ida Road                               Maidu                         PO Box6S7                                      Maidu
Oroville        , CA 95966                                                    Marysville     , CA 95901                      Miwok
(530) 589-1571




Strawberry Valley Rancheria
Calvine Rose, Chairperson
PO Box 667                                      Maidu
MarySVille     , CA 95901                       Miwok




Enterprise Rancheria of Maidu Indians
Frank Watson, Vice Chairperson
1940 Feather River Blvd" Suite B                Maidu
Oroville               , CA 95965
eranch@cncnet.com
(530) 532-9214
(530) 532-1768 FAX




Thill IIfi 16 current only 118 Of the date of this doeumellt.

Dr.trlblrtlon of this II8t d_ not relie'fe llIlY p8f1M)n at mtutory responslblNty as deftned In sectIon 7050.11 of the Haalth and
Safety Code, section 5097.94 of the PubUc Rwources Cod$ and lleGtlon 5O!l7.98 of the Public Resourcl!$ COde.

This Illlt Is only eppIlcable for contacting iocIIl Native Americans with reg~rd to cultural resources for the proposed
SCHfl2OOIOB2127 AnneXlltlon of tha Johnson Rancho end Hop F8rm Properties; Yuba County.
                COUNTY OF PLACER
                Community Development Resource Agency
                  John Marin, Agency Director                                                                      PLANNING
                                                                                                          Michael J. Johnson, AICP
                                                                                                              Planning Director


October 9, 2008
                                                                   ::<.ECEIVED
Tim Raney                                                        OCT 14 Z008
Community Development Director
                                                                       ;;IYYOF
City of Wheatland                                                    WHEATLAND
313 Main Street
Wheatland, Ca. 95692


SUBJECT:       Johnson Rancho and Hop Farm Properties Annexation Project
               Notice ofPreparation County Comment


Dear Mr. Raney:

Thank you for the opportunity to review and comment on the Notice of Preparation for the
environmental document for the Johnson Rancho and Hop Farm properties annexation project.
The decision to annex and develop the Johnson Rancho and Hop Farm properties is a policy
decision that has significant implications, and consequences, for future development in the City of
Wheatland, and Yuba and Placer counties. Given the scale of the proposed development on the
Johnson Rancho and Hop Farm properties and its proximity to Placer County, the County has
concerns about the potential significant regional impacts of the project, especially to Placer
County residents and businesses. To ensure that these potential impacts are fully mitigated, the
County would like to work cooperatively with the City of Wheatland and Yuba County to identify
appropriate mitigation measures for the project.

Land Use
The Land Use chapter proposes to study the compatibility of the proposed project with
surrounding land uses; both existing and proposed. Placer County requests that the EIR include a
discussion of proposed and approved projects in Placer County including the Cemex Patterson
Sand and Gravel Mine Expansion Project (PCPA T20070552). The Cemex Sand and Gravel
project has an approved Conditional Use Permit with Placer/Yuba County allowing for an
expansion of its current operation by approximately 448 acres. The Conditional Use Permit also
extends the mining activities to the year 2045. Most of the expansion area is within Placer
County (271 acres). However, part of the proposed expansion area (177 acres) is within Yuba
County. The County has enclosed a copy of the Environmental Impact Report for the Cemex
Patterson Sand and Gravel project (SCH No.1998052072) for your review.




              3091 County Center Drive Suite 140 I Auburn, Califomia 95603 I (530) 745·3000 I Fax (530) 745·3080
                    Intemet Address: http://www.placer.ca.gov/plannlng I email: planning@placer.ca.gov
                                                                                   All Traffic Data
                                                                                            (916)771-8700
WHEATLAND                                                                                                                                  File Name    : 09-7210-001 D ST-FIRST-F
                                                                                                                                           Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                                           Start Date   : 5/20/2009
                                                                                                                                           Page No      :1


                                                                                     Groups Printed- Unshifted
                                        D ST.                                FIRST ST.                                D ST.                              FIRST ST.
                                     From North                              From East                            From South                             From West
         Start Time      Right      Thru      Left    App. Total    Right   Thru     Left App. Total     Right    Thru      Left   App. Total   Right   Thru     Left   App. Total   Int. Total
          07:00 AM           6       171        0           177         2      0       0           2         0     149        2          151       10      1        7          18          348
          07:15 AM          10       191        1           202         3      2       1           6         0     173       14          187       17      4       12          33          428
          07:30 AM          18       173        0           191         2      0       3           5         0     191       21          212       26      3       32          61          469
          07:45 AM           8       177        0           185         3      2       1           6         1     167       28          196       40      1       38          79          466
               Total        42       712        1           755        10      4       5          19         1     680       65          746       93      9       89         191         1711

          08:00 AM          11       156          0          167       2       2        1           5        0     161       25          186      34      1       22           57         415
          08:15 AM          11       150          2          163       1       1        1           3        0     125       17          142      13      0       18           31         339
          08:30 AM           6       150          0          156       0       2        1           3        0     152       14          166      21      2       26           49         374
          08:45 AM           4       135          0          139       1       3        1           5        2     112        8          122       9      0       19           28         294
              Total         32       591          2          625       4       8        4          16        2     550       64          616      77      3       85          165        1422



          04:00 PM           4       163          1          168       3       1        1           5        2     190        9          201      14      2        9           25         399
          04:15 PM           5       185          0          190       5       2        2           9        4     190        9          203      30      0       13           43         445
          04:30 PM           7       175          2          184       1       1        2           4        0     194       13          207      14      2       12           28         423
          04:45 PM           3       229          4          236       5       1        0           6        2     202       11          215      22      0        9           31         488
              Total         19       752          7          778      14       5        5          24        8     776       42          826      80      4       43          127        1755

          05:00 PM           5       197          2          204       2       3        4           9        3     194       11          208      35      3       10           48         469
          05:15 PM           4       204          1          209       3       1        3           7        1     180       15          196      32      1       20           53         465
          05:30 PM           3       170          4          177       2       2        3           7        1     205       12          218      37      3        7           47         449
          05:45 PM           3       152          2          157       5       1        2           8        1     198       13          212      15      2       12           29         406
              Total         15       723          9          747      12       7       12          31        6     777       51          834     119      9       49          177        1789

       Grand Total        108       2778         19         2905      40      24       26          90        17   2783      222         3022     369      25      266         660        6677
         Apprch %          3.7       95.6       0.7                 44.4    26.7     28.9                   0.6    92.1      7.3                55.9     3.8     40.3
           Total %         1.6       41.6       0.3         43.5     0.6     0.4      0.4          1.3      0.3    41.7      3.3         45.3     5.5    0.4        4          9.9




                                          D ST.                              FIRST ST.                                D ST.                              FIRST ST.
                                       From North                            From East                            From South                             From West
        Start Time        Right       Thru        Left App. Total   Right   Thru     Left   App. Total   Right    Thru      Left   App. Total   Right   Thru     Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
         07:15 AM             10       191           1       202       3       2        1           6         0    173       14          187      17       4       12          33         428
          07:30 AM            18       173           0       191       2       0        3           5         0    191       21          212      26       3       32          61         469
          07:45 AM             8       177           0       185       3       2        1           6         1    167       28          196      40       1       38          79         466
          08:00 AM            11       156           0       167       2       2        1           5         0    161       25          186      34       1       22          57         415
      Total Volume            47       697           1       745      10       6        6          22         1    692       88          781     117       9      104         230        1778
      % App. Total           6.3      93.6         0.1              45.5    27.3     27.3                   0.1   88.6     11.3                 50.9     3.9     45.2
                                                                                   All Traffic Data
                                                                                            (916)771-8700
WHEATLAND                                                                                                                              File Name        : 09-7210-002 D ST-FOURTH-F
                                                                                                                                       Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                                                                       Start Date       : 5/20/2009
                                                                                                                                       Page No          :1


                                                                                     Groups Printed- Unshifted
                                        D ST.                               FOURTH ST.                                D ST.                               FOURTH ST.
                                     From North                              From East                            From South                               From West
         Start Time      Right      Thru      Left     App. Total   Right   Thru     Left App. Total     Right    Thru      Left   App. Total   Right     Thru     Left   App. Total   Int. Total
          07:00 AM           0       160       16            176       15      0       1          16         1     150        0          151        0        0       1             1         344
          07:15 AM           2       189       13            204       28      0       1          29         0     168        1          169        0        0       0             0         402
          07:30 AM           1       167       19            187       33      0       0          33         1     195        0          196        0        0       0             0         416
          07:45 AM           1       169       28            198       37      0       1          38         2     162        3          167        0        0       0             0         403
               Total         4       685       76            765     113       0       3         116         4     675        4          683        0        0       1             1        1565

          08:00 AM           0       141         37          178      41       0        0          41        1     143        1          145       0        0        0             0        364
          08:15 AM           0       130         20          150      28       0        1          29        1     118        1          120       0        0        0             0        299
          08:30 AM           4       128         31          163      26       2        2          30        1     146        3          150       0        0        1             1        344
          08:45 AM           2       111         20          133       8       0        0           8        2     111        1          114       0        0        0             0        255
              Total          6       510        108          624     103       2        3         108        5     518        6          529       0        0        1             1       1262



          04:00 PM           0       139         14          153      29       0        2          31        4     162        1          167       0        1        2             3        354
          04:15 PM           0       158         24          182      31       0        2          33        5     177        1          183       1        1        0             2        400
          04:30 PM           0       161         26          187      19       0        0          19        1     184        0          185       0        0        0             0        391
          04:45 PM           0       203         46          249      24       0        1          25        6     199        3          208       0        0        0             0        482
              Total          0       661        110          771     103       0        5         108       16     722        5          743       1        2        2             5       1627

          05:00 PM           0       184         28          212      24       0        3          27        2     183        0          185       0        0        0             0        424
          05:15 PM           2       142         52          196      16       0        2          18        4     174        1          179       0        0        1             1        394
          05:30 PM           0       150         37          187      25       0        0          25        3     200        1          204       0        1        1             2        418
          05:45 PM           0       137         30          167      24       0        3          27        2     196        1          199       0        0        0             0        393
              Total          2       613        147          762      89       0        8          97       11     753        3          767       0        1        2             3       1629

       Grand Total          12      2469        441         2922     408       2       19         429        36   2668        18        2722       1        3         6          10        6083
         Apprch %          0.4       84.5      15.1                 95.1     0.5      4.4                   1.3      98      0.7                  10       30        60
           Total %         0.2       40.6        7.2          48      6.7      0      0.3          7.1      0.6    43.9      0.3         44.7      0        0       0.1          0.2




                                          D ST.                             FOURTH ST.                                D ST.                               FOURTH ST.
                                       From North                            From East                            From South                               From West
        Start Time        Right       Thru        Left App. Total   Right   Thru     Left   App. Total   Right    Thru      Left   App. Total   Right     Thru     Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
         07:15 AM              2       189          13       204      28       0        1          29         0    168         1         169        0        0       0             0        402
          07:30 AM             1       167          19       187      33       0        0          33         1    195         0         196        0        0       0             0        416
          07:45 AM             1       169          28       198      37       0        1          38         2    162         3         167        0        0       0             0        403
          08:00 AM             0       141          37       178      41       0        0          41         1    143         1         145        0        0       0             0        364
      Total Volume             4       666          97       767     139       0        2         141         4    668         5         677        0        0       0             0       1585
      % App. Total           0.5      86.8        12.6              98.6       0      1.4                   0.6   98.7       0.7                    0        0       0
                                                                                   All Traffic Data
                                                                                             (916)771-8700
WHEATLAND                                                                                                                                    File Name    : 09-7210-003 D ST-MAIN -F
                                                                                                                                             Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                                                             Start Date   : 5/20/2009
                                                                                                                                             Page No      :1


                                                                                     Groups Printed- Unshifted
                                        D ST.                                 MAIN ST.                                 D ST.                                MAIN ST.
                                     From North                              From East                             From South                              From West
         Start Time      Right      Thru      Left     App. Total   Right   Thru     Left App. Total     Right     Thru      Left   App. Total   Right    Thru     Left   App. Total   Int. Total
          07:00 AM           0       150       13            163       16      2       12         30         2      132        3          137        0       1       2             3         333
          07:15 AM           0       178       11            189       14      0        8         22         4      161        2          167        1       0       0             1         379
          07:30 AM           1       158       11            170       24      3        9         36         6      170        4          180        1       1       0             2         388
          07:45 AM           0       151       18            169       23      0        7         30         2      147        2          151        0       1       0             1         351
               Total         1       637       53            691       77      5       36        118        14      610       11          635        2       3       2             7        1451

          08:00 AM           1       120         24          145      21       0       13           34        4     123        2          129       2       1        0             3        311
          08:15 AM           0       106         23          129      22       0       16           38        3     103        1          107       1       1        2             4        278
          08:30 AM           0       111         21          132      28       0       12           40        6     120        2          128       0       0        0             0        300
          08:45 AM           1        90         22          113      21       1       14           36        5      94        4          103       1       0        1             2        254
              Total          2       427         90          519      92       1       55          148       18     440        9          467       4       2        3             9       1143



          04:00 PM           2       124         14          140      12       1        6           19       10     165        2          177       0       0        1             1        337
          04:15 PM           1       139         22          162      16       0        7           23       11     167        2          180       0       0        0             0        365
          04:30 PM           0       140         22          162      21       0       10           31        9     164        2          175       1       0        1             2        370
          04:45 PM           0       178         28          206      15       0       11           26       14     190        1          205       2       1        0             3        440
              Total          3       581         86          670      64       1       34           99       44     686        7          737       3       1        2             6       1512

          05:00 PM           2       152         33          187      18       0        7           25       12     164        2          178       2       0        0             2        392
          05:15 PM           2       120         26          148      23       0        9           32       18     155        3          176       1       0        1             2        358
          05:30 PM           0       125         28          153      24       0       14           38       21     175        1          197       0       0        0             0        388
          05:45 PM           2       113         24          139      19       0       18           37       11     180        0          191       2       0        0             2        369
              Total          6       510        111          627      84       0       48          132       62     674        6          742       5       0        1             6       1507

       Grand Total          12      2155        340         2507     317       7      173          497     138     2410        33        2581       14       6        8          28        5613
         Apprch %          0.5         86      13.6                 63.8     1.4     34.8                   5.3     93.4      1.3                   50    21.4     28.6
           Total %         0.2       38.4        6.1        44.7      5.6    0.1       3.1          8.9     2.5     42.9      0.6          46      0.2     0.1      0.1          0.5




                                          D ST.                               MAIN ST.                                 D ST.                                MAIN ST.
                                       From North                            From East                             From South                              From West
        Start Time        Right       Thru        Left App. Total   Right   Thru     Left    App. Total   Right    Thru      Left   App. Total   Right    Thru     Left   App. Total   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:00 AM
         07:00 AM              0       150          13       163      16       2       12           30         2    132         3         137       0        1        2            3        333
          07:15 AM             0       178          11       189      14       0        8           22         4    161         2         167       1        0        0            1        379
          07:30 AM             1       158          11       170      24       3        9           36         6    170         4         180       1        1        0            2        388
          07:45 AM             0       151          18       169      23       0        7           30         2    147         2         151       0        1        0            1        351
      Total Volume             1       637          53       691      77       5       36          118        14    610        11         635       2        3        2            7       1451
      % App. Total           0.1      92.2         7.7              65.3     4.2     30.5                    2.2   96.1       1.7                28.6     42.9     28.6
                                                                                      All Traffic Data
                                                                                               (916)771-8700
WHEATLAND                                                                                                                 File Name       : 09-7210-004 SPENCEVILLE-JASPER-F
                                                                                                                          Site Code       : 00000000
                                                                                                                          Start Date      : 5/20/2009
                                                                                                                          Page No         :1


                                                                                       Groups Printed- Unshifted
                                    JASPER LN.                              CAMP BEALE HWY.                                                             CAMP BEALE HWY.
                                     From North                                From East                           From South                              From West
         Start Time      Right      Thru      Left    App. Total    Right     Thru     Left App. Total     Right   Thru     Left   App. Total   Right     Thru     Left App. Total   Int. Total
          07:00 AM           1         0        0              1        0       16       0          16         0      0       0             0       0       24        9        33           50
          07:15 AM           5         0        3              8        1       22       0          23         0      0       0             0       0       18        9        27           58
          07:30 AM           6         0        2              8        5       27       0          32         0      0       0             0       0       31        4        35           75
          07:45 AM           2         0        1              3        1       37       0          38         0      0       0             0       0       28        5        33           74
               Total        14         0        6            20         7      102       0         109         0      0       0             0       0      101       27       128          257

          08:00 AM           3          0         0            3       1         26        0         27        0     0        0             0      0        25        5         30         60
          08:15 AM           4          0         0            4       1         25        0         26        0     0        0             0      0        12        3         15         45
          08:30 AM           4          0         1            5       0         22        0         22        0     0        0             0      0        15        5         20         47
          08:45 AM           3          0         0            3       2         13        0         15        0     0        0             0      0        15        7         22         40
              Total         14          0         1           15       4         86        0         90        0     0        0             0      0        67       20         87        192



          04:00 PM          12          0         2           14       2         24        0         26        0     0        0             0      0        17        2         19         59
          04:15 PM           6          0         1            7       1         33        0         34        0     0        0             0      0        12        3         15         56
          04:30 PM          11          0         1           12       3         42        0         45        0     0        0             0      0        23        2         25         82
          04:45 PM          11          0         2           13       1         36        0         37        0     0        0             0      0        21        7         28         78
              Total         40          0         6           46       7        135        0        142        0     0        0             0      0        73       14         87        275

          05:00 PM          10          0         1           11       1         19        0         20        0     0        0             0      0        24        2         26         57
          05:15 PM           7          0         1            8       1         23        0         24        0     0        0             0      0        31        4         35         67
          05:30 PM          11          0         0           11       0         35        0         35        0     0        0             0      0        30        4         34         80
          05:45 PM          10          0         2           12       0         30        0         30        0     0        0             0      0        22        2         24         66
              Total         38          0         4           42       2        107        0        109        0     0        0             0      0       107       12        119        270

       Grand Total         106          0        17          123       20       430        0        450        0     0        0             0      0        348      73        421        994
         Apprch %         86.2          0      13.8                   4.4      95.6        0                   0     0        0                    0       82.7    17.3
           Total %        10.7          0       1.7         12.4        2      43.3        0       45.3        0     0        0             0      0         35     7.3       42.4




                                      JASPER LN.                          CAMP BEALE HWY.                                                             CAMP BEALE HWY.
                                       From North                            From East                             From South                            From West
        Start Time        Right       Thru        Left App. Total   Right   Thru     Left App. Total       Right   Thru     Left   App. Total   Right   Thru     Left App. Total     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
         07:15 AM              5          0          3          8       1        22        0         23        0      0       0             0      0         18       9         27          58
          07:30 AM             6          0          2          8       5        27        0         32        0      0       0             0      0         31       4         35          75
          07:45 AM             2          0          1          3       1        37        0         38        0      0       0             0      0         28       5         33          74
          08:00 AM             3          0          0          3       1        26        0         27        0      0       0             0      0         25       5         30          60
      Total Volume           16           0          6        22        8       112        0        120        0      0       0             0      0        102      23        125         267
      % App. Total         72.7           0       27.3                6.7      93.3        0                   0      0       0                    0       81.6    18.4
                                                                                       All Traffic Data
                                                                                               (916)771-8700
WHEATLAND                                                                                                           File Name        : 09-7210-005 CAMP FAR WEST-MONARCH-F
                                                                                                                    Site Code        : 00000000
                                                                                                                    Start Date       : 5/20/2009
                                                                                                                    Page No          :1


                                                                                        Groups Printed- Unshifted
                                 CAMP BEALE HWY.                            MONARCH TRAIL DR.                     CAMP FAR WEST RD.                     CAMP BEALE HWY.
                                    From North                                  From East                            From South                            From West
         Start Time      Right     Thru      Left App. Total        Right      Thru     Left App. Total     Right    Thru     Left App. Total   Right     Thru     Left App. Total   Int. Total
          07:00 AM           9        1        0         10             0         1       0           1         0       4        9        13        0        0       18        18           42
          07:15 AM          12        1        0         13             0         2       0           2         0       3        6          9       5        0       24        29           53
          07:30 AM           9        2        0         11             1         1       0           2         0       5       24        29        3        1       23        27           69
          07:45 AM          10        0        0         10             0         0       0           0         0       2       18        20        5        0       24        29           59
               Total        40        4        0         44             1         4       0           5         0      14       57        71       13        1       89       103          223

          08:00 AM          11          1         0           12       0           1       0          1        0        3        8         11      3          1      15         19         43
          08:15 AM          14          2         0           16       0           0       0          0        0        1        9         10      3          0      11         14         40
          08:30 AM          11          2         0           13       0           0       0          0        0        0        4          4      4          0       9         13         30
          08:45 AM           8          0         0            8       0           0       0          0        0        3        6          9      2          1      10         13         30
              Total         44          5         0           49       0           1       0          1        0        7       27         34     12          2      45         59        143



          04:00 PM          15         3          0           18       0           0       0          0        0        0       11         11     16          0       7         23         52
          04:15 PM          25         2          0           27       0           0       0          0        0        1       11         12      8          1       6         15         54
          04:30 PM          23         4          0           27       0           0       0          0        0        0       11         11      9          0      10         19         57
          04:45 PM          29         1          0           30       0           0       0          0        0        1        5          6     12          0      10         22         58
              Total         92        10          0          102       0           0       0          0        0        2       38         40     45          1      33         79        221

          05:00 PM          16         3          0           19       0           0       0          0        0        2        3          5     11          0       8         19         43
          05:15 PM          21         2          1           24       0           1       0          1        0        0        6          6     12          0      15         27         58
          05:30 PM          24         4          0           28       0           0       0          0        0        0        9          9     17          1      13         31         68
          05:45 PM          12         3          0           15       0           0       0          0        0        0        8          8      9          0      10         19         42
              Total         73        12          1           86       0           1       0          1        0        2       26         28     49          1      46         96        211

       Grand Total         249         31         1          281       1           6       0          7        0       25      148        173    119          5     213        337        798
         Apprch %         88.6         11       0.4                 14.3        85.7       0                   0     14.5     85.5              35.3        1.5    63.2
           Total %        31.2        3.9       0.1         35.2     0.1         0.8       0         0.9       0      3.1     18.5       21.7   14.9        0.6    26.7       42.2




                                  CAMP BEALE HWY.                         MONARCH TRAIL DR.                       CAMP FAR WEST RD.                   CAMP BEALE HWY.
                                       From North                             From East                              From South                          From West
        Start Time        Right       Thru        Left App. Total   Right    Thru     Left App. Total       Right    Thru     Left App. Total   Right   Thru     Left App. Total     Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:15 AM
         07:15 AM            12           1         0         13       0           2       0          2        0        3        6          9      5          0      24         29          53
          07:30 AM             9          2         0         11       1           1       0          2        0        5       24         29      3          1      23         27          69
          07:45 AM           10           0         0         10       0           0       0          0        0        2       18         20      5          0      24         29          59
          08:00 AM           11           1         0         12       0           1       0          1        0        3        8         11      3          1      15         19          43
      Total Volume           42           4         0         46       1           4       0          5        0       13       56         69     16          2      86        104         224
      % App. Total         91.3         8.7         0                 20          80       0                   0     18.8     81.2              15.4        1.9    82.7
