 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    APPENDIX A: FATAL FLAW ANALYSIS

       
Fatal Flaw Analysis
A fatal flaw analysis was conducted to determine whether or not to progress this study through
further analysis, based on the potential impacts and general feasibility of implementing road diet
options for the corridor. Based on the results of the analysis, no `fatal flaws' were identified.
Results of the analysis are summarized in Tables 8 and 9. Table 8: Level of Service Summary ­
Fatal Flaw Conditions demonstrates expected LOS for various movements along the corridor
and Table 9: Queue Summary ­ Fatal Flaw Conditions projects expected queuing distances (in
feet) for various intersection movements.

The following assumptions were incorporated into the fatal flaw analysis:
   ·   One through lane in each direction throughout the entire study area
   ·   A 150 foot right turn lane on eastbound James Street at the Shotwell Park intersection
   ·   150 foot right turn lanes on eastbound James Street at the Oswego Boulevard and
       Sedgwick Street intersections (based on projected 2030 traffic volumes)
   ·   Right turn lane on westbound James Street at North State Street (existing)
   ·   150 foot left turn lanes at all signalized intersections where a left turn lane currently does
       not exist today
   ·   Traffic signal optimization along the corridor. Optimized intersection splits while
       maintaining cycle lengths and offsets. The overall traffic signal coordination plan was
       not optimized
   ·   No changes to the number and/or configuration of travel lanes at the James Street/
       Shotwell Park/ Grant Boulevard intersection. This intersection currently contains one
       through lane on both the eastbound and westbound approaches of James Street
Table 8: Level of Service Summary ­ Fatal Flaw Conditions
Table 9: Queue Summary ­ Fatal Flaw Conditions
Overall, the fatal flaw analysis indicates very little change in LOS from the 2030 null conditions.
Very few intersections experience a degradation in LOS between 2030 null conditions and 2030
fatal flaw conditions. Signal timing adjustments alone fixed several failing intersection
approaches. The intersections that experience the most significant degradation in LOS from the
2030 null conditions to the 2030 fatal flaw conditions are:
   ·   James Street at North State Street ­ Morning peak hour LOS is reduced from B to C,
       although average delay is only increased from 16 seconds to 22 seconds. Evening peak
       hour LOS is reduced from C to D, again with a small increase in average delay from 32
       seconds to 40 seconds.
   ·   James Street at Lodi Street ­ Morning peak hour LOS is reduced from B to C; however,
       average delay is only increased from 16 seconds to 21 seconds.
   ·   James Street at Sedgwick Street ­ Morning and evening peak hour LOS is reduced from
       A to B, with average delay increasing from 8 seconds to 15 seconds, and 8 seconds to
       14 seconds respectively.
   ·   James Street at Teall Avenue ­ Morning peak hour LOS is reduced from C to D, with an
       increase in average delay of 12 seconds. Evening peak hour LOS is reduced from D to
       E, with a 25 second increase in average delay.

The fatal flaw analysis indicates that the loss in capacity that is caused by a reduction in travel
lanes brought on by a road diet can be offset by traffic signal optimization, as noted above,
resulting in LOS improvements at several intersection approaches:
   ·   James Street at Oswego Boulevard ­ The northbound left turn movement on Oswego
       Boulevard during the evening peak hour maintains a LOS F; however, average delay is
       decreased from 201 seconds to 82 seconds. The northbound left/ through movement on
       Oswego Boulevard during the evening peak hour experiences an improvement in LOS
       from F to D, with a decrease in average delay of 75 seconds.
   ·   James Street at North Townsend Street ­ The northbound left turn movement on North
       Townsend Street during the evening peak hour experiences an improvement in LOS
       from F to D with a decrease in delay of 61 seconds.
   ·   James Street at Catherine Street ­ The evening peak hour LOS for the intersection
       improves from a LOS C to LOS B with a decrease in average delay of 15 seconds.

As typically occurs with a single lane configuration, the fatal flaw analysis indicates that queuing
distances increased at every signalized intersection approach along James Street. This is
primarily due to the fact that there is less vehicle storage under a single lane configuration than
under a multiple lane configuration. In addition, the fatal flaw analysis assumed that the traffic
signals at James Street and Teall Avenue and at James Street and Shotwell Park operate
independently of the coordination plan, as currently exists today.

The fatal flaw analysis indicates that altering the number and configuration of travel lanes along
the James Street corridor to consist of one through lane in each direction with turn lanes at
several key locations will result in traffic operations that are generally acceptable for urban
corridors. The analysis indicates that most intersections along James Street will operate at LOS
D or better, which is generally acceptable for both signalized and unsignalized intersections. The
James Street/ Teall Avenue intersection during the evening peak hour and James Street/ Shotwell
Park/ Grant Boulevard intersection during the morning and evening peak hour experience
intersection LOS E or worse. The James Street/Shotwell Park/Grant Boulevard intersection
experiences a failing LOS under null conditions, which remains constant under the fatal flaw
analysis since the fatal flaw analysis included no changes to the number and/or configuration of
travel lanes at that location. Additional mitigation measures will likely be required at these
intersections.
          
Traffic Operations Analysis Conclusion
After evaluating the fatal flaw analysis, it was concluded that a road diet option for James Street
is potentially feasible and that more detailed analysis should be continued.

The fatal flaw analysis does not account for transit vehicles and the potential vehicle queue that
would develop as a result of transit vehicle dwell times, especially at the busier bus stops. With
approximately 800 vehicles traveling in the eastbound or westbound direction on James Street
under the 2030 future condition, depending on the morning or evening peak hour, vehicles
would be passing any given bus stop location at a rate of approximately one vehicle every 4.5
seconds, assuming uniform arrival patterns. Based on the average dwell time of 20 seconds
per bus stop observed during the SMTC transit data collection, it would be reasonable to
assume that 4-5 vehicles would queue behind a bus at each stop that it makes. Given the low
turning movement volumes at the signalized intersections in the corridor, queues behind buses
would likely increase by another 4-5 vehicles at each subsequent stop that the bus makes.
With multiple stops in relative close proximity to each other, traffic queues could quickly build to
20 vehicles or more, resulting in significant congestion issues within the corridor. These traffic
queues could be especially problematic when buses use a far side stop (a stop after passing
through a traffic signal) if the vehicles block the side street movements.

With a 3-lane road diet option (one through lane in each direction and a center two-way left-turn
lane), due to limited existing pavement width, transit vehicles would need to make their stops in
the travel lane, which could potentially prompt drivers to avoid transit dwell times by using the
center left-turn lane to pass a bus. Following discussions with SMTC, Centro, and the City of
Syracuse, it was determined that allowing transit vehicles to make their stops in the travel lane
under a 3-lane configuration may result in undesirable vehicle queuing and create safety
hazards. Therefore, it was determined that any future options for James Street that reduce the
number of travel lanes should address the issue of having transit vehicles making stops from the
travel lane, and consider the impacts of buses entering and exiting the travel lane.
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    APPENDIX B: PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT

       
                       James Street Road Diet Study 
 

                                Public Involvement Appendix 
The James Street Road Diet public involvement process was inclusive, comprehensive, and collaborative.  
The SMTC developed a Public Involvement Plan (PIP), which is attached.  The PIP outlines a process to 
facilitate and engage the public early and often in the planning process.  Through its implementation, it 
provides citizens, affected public agencies, businesses, local government, and other interested parties 
with a reasonable opportunity to comment on transportation plans and programs.  

Extensive outreach occurred for the two public meetings. In preparation of the meetings, the SMTC 
developed fliers, which it posted to its website, www.smtcmpo.org; disseminated electronically to various 
community groups including Syracuse's Downtown, Near Northside, and Eastwood Tomorrow's 
Neighborhoods Today (TNT) planning area groups; and ­ with permission of the property owners and 
managers ­ posted throughout the corridor at the following locations to announce both public meetings:   

    1.    (489 James) Original Italian Pizza/Colonial Laundromat  
    2.    (518 James) United Way 
    3.    (635 James) Arise  
    4.    (753 James) Skyline Apartments 
    5.    (770 James) Regency Towers 
    6.    (953 James) Bryant & Stratton 
    7.    Highrise apartment building at the northwest corner of James and Oak 
    8.    (1613 James) Lincoln Middle School 
    9.    (2329 James) Walgreens Pharmacy  
    10.   (2384 James) Palace Theater 
    11.   (2443 James) The Book's End  
    12.   (2600 James) Books and Memories 
    13.   Laundromat (corner of Ashdale and James Street) 
    14.    (2921 James) Dunkin Donuts/Papa Johns 
    15.    (3152 James) Coffee shop located in plaza 
    16.   Other locations and public areas as appropriate 
 
The dissemination of this information generated a lot of discussion among various neighborhood 
groups.   Various community groups blogged and emailed each other about the project.  Some of these 
emails were formalized and forwarded to the SMTC as part of the public comment record.  All 
comments submitted on behalf of the public have been incorporated into this public involvement 
appendix. 
 
In addition to disseminating fliers, the SMTC also meet with the Eastwood TNT and the Durston Ave 
Neighborhood Watch groups to inform them about this process as part of our outreach effort.  No 
comments or substantive discussion was held at these meetings.  The purpose of these meetings was to 
simply inform the participants of the process and to invite their participation at the public meetings.  
The SMTC included anyone who participated in meetings or who requested information as part of a 
stakeholder group.  The stakeholder group, which included 72 individuals, received a flier invitation in 
the mail to the public meetings. 
 
The SMTC also submitted press releases (attached) to local newspapers announcing the public meetings, 
and some newspapers ran articles about the study.  Public meeting agendas (attached) were provided at 
each meeting, and meeting summaries were produced.  Applicable meeting summaries are attached and 
included in the record.   
 
In addition to being able to submit written comments throughout the planning process, the SMTC 
disseminated comment sheets that people could fill out and submit up to two weeks after a public 
meeting.  Several comments were received this way and have been included as part of this appendix. 
 
The City of Syracuse and the SMTC also received 12 calls regarding the first public meeting.  Four calls 
were in support of the project, seven spoke against it, and one individual raised a question about how 
buses would be impacted, but did not indicate a preference for or against a road diet.  During the 
conversations, callers offered the following questions and comments: 
 
Questions 
              How would a road diet affect emergency vehicles? 
              Could traffic be calmed east of Eastwood? 
              Will buses cause traffic to back up?  Will there be congestion as a result? 
              How will handicapped users be accommodated? 
              Can we reduce the number of bus stops? 
              Would bicyclists be able to use steep hills along James Street? 
              Will bike racks be provided throughout the corridor? 
              Will bicyclists use the lanes during the winter? 
           
Comments  
              A road diet would adversely affect property values. 
              A road diet would adversely affect the attractiveness of the city. 
 
          James Street Road Diet Study



                 Public Involvement Plan




Financial assistance for the preparation of this document was provided, in part, by the
U.S. Department of Transportation's Federal Highway and Federal Transit
Administrations and the New York State Department of Transportation. The Syracuse
Metropolitan Transportation Council (SMTC) is solely responsible for its content.



For further information, contact:

Michael Alexander, Project Manager
Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
126 N. Salina Street, 100 Clinton Square, Suite 100
Syracuse, New York 13202
Phone: (315) 422-5716; Fax: (315) 422-7753; Email: malexander@smtcmpo.org
www.smtcmpo.org
I.        Introduction

Engaging the public early and often in the planning process is critical to the success of
any transportation plan or program, and is required by numerous state and federal laws.
Such legislation underscores the need for public involvement, calling on Metropolitan
Planning Organizations (MPO) such as the Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation
Council (SMTC) to provide citizens, affected public agencies, businesses, local
government, and other interested parties with a reasonable opportunity to comment on
transportation plans and programs.

While public participation is mandated, it is also practical. No one organization has a
monopoly on good ideas ­ they often germinate through an open exchange of
information. It is the SMTC's intention to promote the shared obligation of the public
and decision makers to define the goals and objectives of the James Street Road Diet
Study, to develop alternatives, and to evaluate the alternatives.

This Public Involvement Plan (PIP) was created under the SMTC's umbrella Public
Participation Plan (PPP), which can be found at the SMTC website, www.smtcmpo.org.

II.       Goals

The intent of the PIP for the James Street Road Diet Study is to:

          (1) Create public awareness relative to the study's goals, objectives, and process,
              as well as publicize the public participation opportunities and activities
              available throughout the study; and

          (2) Involve the public throughout the planning process.

III.      Formation of Study Advisory Committee and Interested Stakeholder Group

The PIP includes the formation of two groups to assist the SMTC and the consultant in
the study effort: a Study Advisory Committee (SAC) and a stakeholders group. Selected
representatives from the following affected agencies will be invited to participate in this
study as SAC members:

          New York State Department of Transportation (NYSDOT)
          Central New York Regional Transportation Authority (CNYRTA)
          Syracuse Onondaga County Planning Agency (SOCPA)
          City of Syracuse, Office of the Mayor
          City of Syracuse, Engineering Department
          City of Syracuse, Department of Public Works
          City of Syracuse, Bureau of Planning and Sustainability
          City of Syracuse Police Department
          City of Syracuse Fire Department



                                               2
         Syracuse City School District [Lincoln Middle School]
         Rural Metro
         Other SMTC member agencies as appropriate

The SAC will meet regularly with the SMTC/consultant to assist in managing the project.
The SAC's role will be to advise the SMTC/consultant on the technical content of
deliverables and to provide needed input and guidance throughout the project.

It is anticipated that a minimum of three (3) SAC meetings will be held throughout the
course of the study. Securing a meeting location (facility) and announcing the SAC
meetings through mailings will be the responsibility of the SMTC. Running the SAC
meetings (including preparation of agenda, materials, presentations, etc.), and preparing
the minutes from each meeting will be the responsibility of the consultant.

The SMTC will may reach out to key stakeholders (such as Saint Joseph's Hospital,
Central New York Regional Planning and Development Board, the Metropolitan
Development Association, Bike CNY, etc.) prior to the first public meeting to understand
additional issues and opportunities in the James Street corridor.

SMTC will maintain a list of additional interested stakeholders (a broader group of
interested individuals with significant relations and interest in the study area). The
stakeholders will be sent pertinent study information, kept apprised of significant study
developments, notified of all public meetings, and encouraged to provide feedback and
comment regarding the James Street Road Diet Study.

The SMTC and project sponsors will determine initial representation on the SAC, the
focus groups, and the stakeholders group. However, the SMTC will actively seek input
at its "kick-off meeting" and throughout the course of the study regarding additional
individuals who could participate in this planning activity and provide valuable input and
perspective.

IV.      Meetings and Public Comment

The SMTC/consultant will hold at least two public involvement meetings at specific
stages during the study. SMTC will be responsible for securing a meeting location
(facility) and promoting the event through flyers, mailings and press releases. The
consultant will be responsible for preparation of agenda, materials, and presenting at the
public meetings. In addition, the consultant will prepare the minutes of each meeting.

The first public meeting will provide the opportunity to formally present the study to the
public, review an inventory of existing conditions data, including the fatal flaw analysis,
discuss issues and opportunities in the corridor, and define the goals and preliminary
vision for the corridor. The public meeting may include a breakout session with smaller
subgroups, possibly targeted to specific interests (such as neighborhood residents,
business owners, or commuters). The input received at the first public meeting will be




                                            3
incorporated in the final version of Technical Memorandum #1 prior to SAC approval of
that document.

The second public meeting will take place after the SMTC/consultant and the SAC have
developed a list of potential alternatives to address the study area issues and completed a
preliminary evaluation of alternatives (including future capacity analysis, where
applicable). The preliminary recommendations from the SAC will be presented and the
public will be invited to provide input on these recommendations. Input from the
community will be considered in the final evaluation of alternatives, which will be
completed by the consultant and the SAC following the second public meeting.

Note: All meetings (SAC and public) will be held in a handicapped accessible facility in
compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act. The SMTC will make every effort
to respond to those who notify the SMTC for the need of a sign language interpreter,
assistive learning system, or any other accommodations to facilitate the public's
participation in the transportation planning process.

To further increase its outreach to the public, the SMTC will be initiating and conducting
public involvement activities such as material distribution at locations within study area.
For instance, if deemed necessary (at the discretion of the SAC and/or other appropriate
SMTC committees), the SMTC may distribute miscellaneous study-specific information
at sites within the study area. This information may include one or more of the
following: introductory flyer, meeting notice, comment card, or a pre-addressed
questionnaire on a particular study issue. It is also the SMTC's intent to work with and
encourage other agencies to include this information in their publications or to assist in
material distribution.

All citizens (especially those who are not able to attend the public meetings or participate
in direct contact with the SMTC staff) are encouraged to submit comments to the SMTC
at any time. This message will be publicized and made clear throughout the study's
project schedule, verbally, and on all study material and publications. The public is also
welcome to attend any of the publicized SMTC Executive, Planning and Policy
Committee meetings in which the James Street Road Diet Study may be on the agenda
as a discussion item.

V.     Press Releases/Media Coverage

The SMTC will issue news releases (announcing the details of all public meetings) to all
major and minor newspapers, television stations, and radio in advance. If necessary, the
SMTC will also send additional news releases, or take the initiative to promote media
coverage on pertinent developments pertaining to the James Street Road Diet Study.

If possible, all media inquiries should be directed to the SMTC staff director or project
manager. However, this is not always possible. If you (e.g. SMTC committee members,
SAC members, and/or interested stakeholders associated with the study) are interviewed
by the media, please limit your comments to your respective agency's opinion or


                                             4
involvement in the study. Speaking to the media on specific issues and questions
regarding the James Street Road Diet Study, such as the study progress and
development, is the exclusive responsibility of the SMTC.

VI.    SMTC Publications

The SMTC publishes a newsletter, DIRECTIONS, that offers news about its activities
and particular studies. This newsletter is distributed to nearly 3,000 individuals, some of
whom include the media; local, state, and federal agencies associated with the SMTC;
municipal and elected officials; community agencies and representatives; and a large
number of interested citizens. It is anticipated that articles on the James Street Diet
Study (e.g. study development issues or the announcement or coverage of a public
meeting) will be published in subsequent issues of DIRECTIONS. Should the need arise
for the production of a separate newsletter/flyer/report to convey a timely study
development the SMTC staff is prepared to perform this additional task. It is also
important to note that the mailing list of the SMTC newsletter, DIRECTIONS, will be
updated to include all members of the SAC, stakeholders, and others interested or
involved in the James Street Road Diet Study.

VII.   Miscellaneous Public Involvement Efforts

The SMTC will ask the SAC members and interested stakeholders to assist them in
notifying citizens and community groups living and/or working in the study area about
the public meetings and the study in general. Such a request is imperative in order to get
the "grassroots community" involved. By helping to distribute flyers/announcements and
speaking to the members of the community about the James Street Road Diet Study,
the SAC and interested stakeholders will serve to further promote public involvement in
areas and to individuals that were not reached through other outreach.

Meeting notices and study-specific material previously mentioned may also be posted at
libraries, local stores, shopping centers, and/or businesses.

Approved documents, such as the study's Final Report, may be made available at
libraries in the vicinity of the study area. News releases will be produced to announce the
availability of such items, and the SMTC invites written comments at any time.

The SMTC web site [www.smtcmpo.org] will also serve as a resource for general
information about the SMTC, the James Street Road Diet Study, and any final
approved reports.

If a certain need arises to get public perception/opinion on a particular topic/issue,
questionnaires may be used at one or more of the public meetings.

Additionally, the James Street Road Diet Study will include various types of
visualization techniques to aid the study. Examples of techniques include mapping, aerial
photographs, traffic simulation graphics, and pictures of the study area.



                                            5
VIII. Conclusion

It is important for the SMTC to understand public attitudes and values throughout the
James Street Road Diet Study, as well as to solicit input from affected citizens and
community representatives. Through the activities described in this public involvement
plan, the SMTC/consultant will solicit public input and provide opportunities for the
public to develop greater awareness of and active involvement in the project. This study
has the potential to recommend transportation changes in a developed area and to alter
the character of a significant community thoroughfare; therefore, public involvement will
be critical to the study effort.




                                           6
                                                Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                                         100 Clinton Square
                                                                             126 N. Salina Street, Suite 100
                                                                                Syracuse, New York 13202
                                                                                      Phone (315) 422-5716
                                                                                         Fax (315) 422-7753
                                                                                         www.smtcmpo.org

NEWS RELEASE
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE ­ SEPTEMBER 23, 2010
Contact: James D'Agostino, Director
Tel: (315) 422-5716; E-mail: jdagostino@smtcmpo.org


 James Street "Road Diet" Study Public Meeting
Syracuse, N.Y. -- A public meeting will be held on Thursday, October 7, 2010 at 6:30 p.m. at the Lincoln
Middle School, 1613 James Street, in Syracuse for the James Street "Road Diet" Study.

A "road diet" study investigates the feasibility of improving a roadway's safety and efficiency for walkers,
bicyclists, transit riders, and motorists by altering the existing number and/or width of automobile travel
lanes. The purpose of the meeting is to:

       ·   review project goals and objectives,
       ·   review existing road and sidewalk conditions, and
       ·   discuss the feasibility of altering travel lanes to better accommodate bicycle and bus traffic.

A work session to brainstorm your ideas for improvements will follow the initial presentations. We welcome
your thoughts about how to improve James Street from Oswego Boulevard to Shotwell Park for all users.

The meeting is the initial public outreach for the James Street "Road Diet" Study, a planning effort being
completed by the Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council (SMTC) on behalf of the City of Syracuse.
For additional information about the project or the public meeting, or to ensure accommodation for special
needs, please contact the SMTC at (315)422-5716.


What is the SMTC?
The Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council was formed in 1966 as a result of the Federal Aid
Highway Act of 1962 and Urban Mass Transportation Act of 1964. Serving as the metropolitan planning
organization (MPO) for the Syracuse Metropolitan area, the SMTC provides the forum for cooperative
decision making in developing transportation plans and programs for Onondaga County and small portions of
Madison and Oswego Counties. The SMTC is comprised of elected and appointed officials, representing
local, state and federal governments or agencies having interest in or responsibility for transportation planning
and programming.
              Log on to the SMTC web site for the latest in transportation
           planning in the Syracuse Metropolitan Area: www.smtcmpo.org


                                                       ###
          J
          amesSt
               reet
                  :Ho a
                     wcnwe
          i
          mpr
            ovei
               tforev
                    ery
                      o ne?

Y
l
e
 o
 a
  ua
  rn
    r
    ,
     ei
     an
       nv
       ds
         i
         t
         h
          e
          a
           dt
           r
             oc
            eyo
               o
               u
                me
                rt
                  ,
                  hought
                       s.                Publ
                                            icMeeng
    Dat
      e:October7,
                2010
    Ti
     me:6:
         30 p.
             m.
  o
  Lcaon:Li
         ncon
            l Middl
                  eSchool
        1613JamesSt
                  reet




 T
 h eSyra
       cuseMe t
              ropol
                  ita
                    n Tr
                       anspor
                            tao  nC ounc
                                       il(
                                         SMT C)i
                                               sstudyi
                                                     ng"roaddiets
                                                                tra
                                                                  tegi
                                                                     es"f
                                                                        ortheJames
 S
 treetCorr
         idorbet
               w ee
                  n OswegoBoule var
                                  d i
                                    n downt
                                          o wnSyra
                                                 cuse a
                                                      n dShotwel
                                                               lParki
                                                                    nEast
                                                                        w ood.T
                                                                              h i
                                                                                s
 s
 tudyw i
       lle
         xplor
             e opo nssuc
                       h a
                         s r
                           edu  c
                                ingthenum beroft
                                               ravel
                                                   lanes,a
                                                         d di
                                                            ngbic
                                                                ycl
                                                                  e l
                                                                    anes
                                                                       ,andaddingbus
 pul
   l
   -offar
        eastoincr
                easesae
                      ftyandeffici
                                 encyforal
                                         lusers
                                              .




    T
    rans
       itRi
          der
            s             Bc
                           iyl
                             ci
                              sts               Pedet
                                                    sra
                                                      ins           Moo
                                                                      tri
                                                                        sts


F
orm or
     e i
       nformao n,ortoreques
                          taccommodaons
                                      ,cont
                                          act
                                            :
 Michae
      lD .Al
           exander
                 ,AICP
 Sy
  racuseMe t
           ropol
               itn
                 a T
                   ranspor
                         tao nCounci
                                   l
 100N.Cli
        ntonSquare
 126N.Sali
         naStree
               t,Syr
                   acuse,NY13202
 315.
    422.5716|m al
                exander
                      @s mtcmpo.
                               org
                                                     T
                                                     h emeengfac
                                                               il
                                                                it
                                                                 y i
                                                                   shandi
                                                                        cappe
                                                                            d ac
                                                                               ces
                                                                                 sibl
                                                                                    e.
 www .
     sm c
        tm po.
             org
James Street Road Diet
Public Meeting Agenda
Thursday, October 7, 2010, 6:30pm
Lincoln Middle School
1613 James Street
Syracuse, New York 13203



1) Welcome & Introductions (~10 minutes)

   a) Project team introductions

   b) Who is SMTC?

   c) Project overview

2) Presentation ­ James Street Road Diet (~30 minutes)

   a) What is a Road Diet?

   b) Case Studies

   c) Existing Conditions

   d) Traffic Operations

   e) Preliminary Strengths & Issues

   f)   Project Goals & Objectives

3) Discussion Session (~25 minutes)

4) Discussion Summary / Questions & Answers (~15 minutes)

5) Next Steps (~5 minutes)

Contact Information:
Michael D. Alexander, AICP
Senior Transportation Planner
Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
100 Clinton Square
126 N. Salina Street, Suite 100
Syracuse, New York 13202
(315) 422-5716
Fax: (315) 422-7753
malexander@smtcmpo.org
James Street Road Diet Study Area
Summary of Public Meeting #1 
James Street Road Diet 
Thursday, October 7, 2010, 6:30pm8:30pm 
Lincoln Middle School
1613 James Street
Syracuse, New York 13203


This was the first Public Meeting for the James Street Road Diet Project. The meeting agenda is
attached. Below is a summary of the discussion items from the meeting.

I.      Welcome and Introductions
        The meeting opened with an introduction by Mike Alexander of SMTC. Mike offered a
        summary of SMTC and an overview of the James Street Road Diet project. Some key
        points from the welcome and introductions were:

            ·   SMTC was asked by the City of Syracuse to conduct the study.
            ·   The study is funded through federal funds allocated specifically for planning
                studies conducted anywhere within the SMTC Metropolitan Planning Area (all of
                Onondaga County, plus small portions of Oswego and Madison Counties).
                These funds cannot be spent on anything else (e.g. infrastructure
                improvements). They must be spent on planning studies. This study is not
                funded using City taxes.
            ·   SMTC does not own or control infrastructure/ facilities (in this case, the City of
                Syracuse and Centro do).
            ·   It is up to the City/ Centro to implement any ideas/ recommendations that come
                out of this plan.
            ·   The purpose of this study is to:
                      o Identify ways to calm traffic along the corridor;
                      o Improve the corridor for all users (multi-modal), including motorists,
                          buses (transit), bicyclists, and pedestrians with minimal impacts to
                          motorists.
            ·   SMTC would like to hear from the public what they would like to see protected
                along the corridor, what they would like to see change, and what their vision for
                the corridor is.

II.     Mid-Session Question and Answer
        SMTC Director, James D'Agostino led a brief question and answer session before getting
        into the presentation to allow four questions to be asked regarding the general purpose of
        the project. A summary of this question and answer session is attached.

III.    Presentation ­ James Street Road Diet
        Mark Mistretta began with a definition of a "Road Diet" and provided examples of road
        diet projects, discussing their benefits. Mark highlighted the accommodation of additional
        transportation modes and streetscape enhancements.

        Fred Frank provided an overview of the existing conditions outlined in Tech Memo #1 as
        well as detailed strengths of the corridor and identified problem areas. He gave an
        overview of the data collection methods and explained the transit headway study that
        was conducted by SMTC employees. The headway study indicated that the average
Public Meeting #1
October 7, 2010
Page 2



        time for a bus stop is around 20 seconds, with only 4-5 bus stops per day lasting longer
        than one minute. These longer stops are typically to accommodate handicapped riders
        or bicyclists. Fred summarized the strengths and weaknesses of the corridor, and
        identified specific problem areas.

        Gordon Stansbury presented the findings from the traffic analysis for both the existing
        conditions, the 2030 conditions, and the 2030 conditions with one travel lane in each
        direction (the feasibility analysis). He provided an overview of how the corridor was
        modeled, including provisions for transit. He concluded by indicating that the traffic and
        feasibility analysis shows that a "Road Diet warrants further study."

        Mark Mistretta outlined the preliminary strengths and issues that were identified during
        the site visits and meetings with the SAC. Mark also reviewed the goals of the project, as
        confirmed by the SAC.

IV.     Discussion Sessions
        Mark Mistretta broke the full group down into three break-out groups where individuals
        had the opportunity to identify what they like about the corridor, what they don't like about
        the corridor, and how they envision the corridor in the future.

V.      Discussion Summary/ Question & Answer
        The break-out groups reconvened after about a 25-minute break-out session. Facilitators
        from each group summarized their group's discussion. A general question and answer
        session followed. Summaries of the break-out group discussions and general question
        and answer session are attached.

The meeting concluded without further discussion.


Wendel Duchscherer



Michael F. Leydecker, PE




                                                                                                     ]
Public Meeting #1
October 7, 2010
Page 3



Summary of Public Meeting #1 MidSession Question and Answer 
SMTC Director, James D'Agostino opened up the floor prior to beginning the existing
conditions portion of the presentation so that members of the public could ask general
questions pertaining to the project. The questions/ comments were as follows with
responses provided by SMTC or Wendel:

    1. Please clarify the reasoning for the Road Diet study on James Street.

        Response: The purpose of this study is to:
                 o Identify ways to calm traffic along the corridor;
                 o Improve the corridor for all users (multi-modal), including
                     motorists, buses (transit), bicyclists, and pedestrians with minimal
                     impacts to motorists.

    2. Concerns about school buses and emergency vehicle if Road Diet is
       implemented. Were the traffic counts collected while school was in session?

        Response: Traffic counts were taken in early June when school was in session.

    3. Left turns should include green arrow phasing.

        Response: No specific design alternatives have been developed, however, it is
        acknowledged that certain intersections will require special attention and turning
        vehicles will require attention.

    4. Need to accommodate persons with disabilities/ ADA accessible.

        Response: Pedestrians and ADA compliance issues will be addressed when
        developing alternatives.




                                                                                             ]
Public Meeting #1
October 7, 2010
Page 4



Summary of Public Meeting #1 BreakOut Sessions 
Break-Out Group A
Facilitators: Mike Leydecker and Gordon Stansbury

              Strengths                                      Weaknesses
Convenient Route                             Poor sidewalk conditions in winter (kids
                                             walk in street)
Sidewalks are great for walking              Roadway is icy in winter, difficult to
                                             traverse grade
                                             Narrow travel lanes (DeWitt to Downtown)
                                             Poor traffic signal coordination
                                             No bicycle facilities
                                             Street contains confusing operations for
                                             elderly


                                      Vision
Retain residential character
Accommodate alternative modes of travel

The group identified some potential concerns with a Road Diet as follows:
   · Could cause confusing operations for elderly
   · School students could use bicycle lanes to walk in.

Break-Out Group B
Facilitators: Mark Mistretta and Meghan Vitale

                   Strengths                                  Weaknesses
Efficient for drivers                        Left turns from travel lane
Tree canopy                                  Poor snow removal from sidewalks
Roadway functions fine                       Crossings/ safety for people with
                                             disabilities
Good bus service                             Right-on-red turns create safety concern
                                             for pedestrians (James Street/ McBride
                                             Street)
Speeding                                                 vehicles
                                             Crashes at James Street/ McBride Street,
                                             intersection if concern for pedestrians
                                             James Street/ Lodi Avenue intersection
                                             has traffic congestion/ safety concerns
                                             Storm sewer catch basins are not at-grade
                                             with the pavement
                                                                                         ]
Public Meeting #1
October 7, 2010
Page 5



                                              Left turning vehicles create backup at
                                              James Street/ Oak Street
                                              Bicyclists traveling in road block outside
                                              travel lane



                                          Vision
Need to accommodate people with disabilities
Potential for Road Diet between downtown and Oak Street, retain roadway elsewhere
Off-road bicycle lane/ pathway
More frequent bus service between Oak Street and Downtown
Remove transit vehicles from the travel lane ­ would be willing to sacrifice some green
space
Not East Genesee Street
Improve traffic signal timing
Improve pedestrian access/ facilities
Access control/ better design of curb cuts

The group identified some potential concerns with a Road Diet as follows:
   · Impact of the growth of St. Joseph's Hospital.

Break-Out Group C
Facilitators: Fred Frank and Mike Alexander

                 Strengths                                    Weaknesses
Single-family residential character of        Poor lighting
eastern end
Tree canopy                                   Poor traffic light coordination
Convenient for commuters/ easy to drive       Street signs are not clearly visible
                                              (especially at State Street, Oak Street, and
                                              Lodi Street)
Ability to avoid turning vehicles and         Storm sewer catch basins are not at-grade
stopping buses                                with the pavement
Sidewalks/ walkability                        Litter at bus stops
 Pedestrian                                                crossings
                                              Number of curb cuts
Mid-block                                                 crossings
                                              Sidewalks aren't cleared of snow

                                         Vision
Improve pedestrian facilities/ maintenance, provide mid-block crossings
Access management
                                                                                             ]
Public Meeting #1
October 7, 2010
Page 6



Off-road bicycle facilities
Improved streetscape (like Eastwood)/ underground utilities
Retain residential character
Keep corridor as is
Remove buses from travel lanes


The group identified some potential concerns with a Road Diet as follows:
   · Longer commute times/ longer waits at traffic lights
   · Impact of I-81 project

Summary of Public Meeting #1 BreakOut Sessions 
After the Break-Out Session, each group reconvened with the group facilitators offering
a summary of their group's discussion. The following is a summary of the summary
discussion of all three break-out groups:

    ·   Overall, the corridor works fine and shouldn't be altered.
    ·   If a Road Diet is to be applied, it would work better for the portion of James
        Street between Downtown and Oak Street, where there is higher transit and
        bicycle use.
    ·   Maintain the residential character of the eastern portion of the corridor.
    ·   Consider bus pull-offs to remove buses from the travel lane.
    ·   Always room to improve sidewalks and pedestrian facilities.
    ·   Coordinate traffic signals to improve traffic flow.
    ·   How will the I-81 study impact traffic flow along James Street and affect this
        study? Additional travel lanes should not be added to James Street.
 
Summary of Public Meeting #1 General Question & Answer/ 
Comment Session 
The following summarizes the Question & Answer/ Comment Session at the end of the
meeting, with responses offered by SMTC or Wendel, if provided:
   1. A general statement was made requesting that people be courteous to others
        while riding the bus and acknowledge handicapped persons. Can Centro run
        public service announcements regarding handicapped seats on buses?

        Response: There are some restrictions as to what Centro can advertise, it's
        something we can look into.

    2. Corridor flows generally well and the result of all three break-out groups is that
       "nobody wanted to go on a diet".

                                                                                            ]
Public Meeting #1
October 7, 2010
Page 7



    3. Look into using Syracuse University arts program to create murals on I-81
       viaduct.
    4. Improve bus stops- more bus shelters, and make more ADA compliant.

        Response: Centro has representation on the Study Advisory Committee and the
        issue of bus accommodations will be addressed.

    5. Need more left turn arrow phasing and left turn lanes.

        Response: No specific design alternatives have been developed, however, it is
        acknowledged that certain intersections will require special attention and turning
        vehicles will require attention.

    6. Add street trees where needed.
    7. Better quality and quantity control of stormwater. Potential for porous pavement
       on bus pull-offs.

        Response: One of the goals of the project is to promote a sustainable corridor,
        stormwater issues will be visited.

    8. A two way left turn lane (TWLTL) should be provided.

        Response: Turning vehicles will require attention and access management
        policies may be visited.

    9. Coordinate traffic signals.
    10. Improve pedestrian facilities/ potentially create an off-road bicycle lane between
        the curb and sidewalk. Would be willing to sacrifice some green space.

        Response: Once alternatives are being developed, various options for bicycle
        and pedestrian facilities will be provided.

    11. Retain residential character.
    12. General need for bicycle lanes/ facilities and improved pedestrian crossings.
    13. Improve pedestrian crossings/ mid block crossings (especially near school).
        Potential for flashing yellow traffic light that can be actuated by pedestrians when
        crossing the street.

        Response: There are several options that can be looked at to improve pedestrian
        crossings.

    14. Improve safety near United Way building ­ make drivers aware that handicapped
        persons are in the vicinity.


                                                                                               ]
Public Meeting #1
October 7, 2010
Page 8



Summary of Comments Received  
Public Meeting #1 
James Street Road Diet 
Thursday, October 7, 2010, 6:30pm 
The attached are comments received in reference to the Public Meeting #1 of the James
Street Road Diet project.




                                                                                        ]
Thank you for attending the public meeting for the James Street `Road Diet' Study on October 7, 2010.
Please provide any additional comments in the space below.
This form can be returned to the comment box or to any SMTC staff member at tonight's meeting. You may
also return this form via mail (SMTC, 126 N. Salina St., Suite 100, Syracuse, N.Y. 13202) or fax (315-422-7753).
Please return comment forms by October 21, 2010.




Name (optional) __________________________________________________________________________
Address (optional) ________________________________________________________________________
Email (optional) __________________________________________________________________________


Would you like to be added to the SMTC mailing list?     Yes         No


For additional information on the James Street `Road Diet' Study, please contact Mike Alexander at the SMTC by phone
                                   (315-422-5716) or email (malexander@smtcmpo.org).
                                               Place
                                               Stamp
                                                Here




Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
Attn: Mike Alexander
126 North Salina Street
100 Clinton Square, Suite 100
SYRACUSE, NY 13202
                                               Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                                          100 Clinton Square
                                                                              126 N. Salina Street, Suite 100
                                                                                 Syracuse, New York 13202
                                                                                       Phone (315) 422-5716
                                                                                          Fax (315) 422-7753
                                                                                          www.smtcmpo.org

NEWS RELEASE
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE ­ AUGUST 8, 2011
Contact: James D'Agostino, Director
Tel: (315) 422-5716; E-mail: jdagostino@smtcmpo.org


 James Street "Road Diet" Study Public Meeting
Syracuse, N.Y. -- A second and final public meeting will be held on Wednesday, August 31, 2011 at 6:30
p.m. at the Lincoln Middle School, 1613 James Street, in Syracuse for the James Street "Road Diet" Study.

A "road diet" study investigates the feasibility of improving a roadway's safety and efficiency for walkers,
bicyclists, transit riders, and motorists by altering the existing number and/or width of automobile travel lanes.
The purpose of the meeting is to:

           review the various alternatives and associated analysis, and
           solicit public comment on the alternatives.

The public meeting will include a formal presentation that will be followed by an interactive session. The
interactive session will consist of three stations. Each station will focus on a different corridor segment.
Illustrations representing different alternatives designed specifically for each corridor segment will be
presented. Participants will have the opportunity to select which alternative concept they like the best for each
segment following a brief overview.

The James Street "Road Diet" Study is a planning effort being completed by the Syracuse Metropolitan
Transportation Council (SMTC) at the request of the City of Syracuse. For additional information about the
project or the public meeting, or to ensure accommodation for special needs, please contact the SMTC at
(315) 422-5716.


What is the SMTC?
The Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council was formed in 1966 as a result of the Federal Aid Highway
Act of 1962 and Urban Mass Transportation Act of 1964. Serving as the metropolitan planning organization
(MPO) for the Syracuse Metropolitan area, the SMTC provides the forum for cooperative decision making in
developing transportation plans and programs for Onondaga County and small portions of Madison and
Oswego Counties. The SMTC is comprised of elected and appointed officials, representing local, state and
federal governments or agencies having interest in or responsibility for transportation planning and
programming.
              Log on to the SMTC web site for the latest in transportation
          planning in the Syracuse Metropolitan Area: www.smtcmpo.org
James Street Road Diet
Public Meeting Agenda
Wednesday, August 31, 2011, 6:30pm
Lincoln Middle School
1613 James Street
Syracuse, New York 13203



1) Welcome & Introductions

   a) Project team introductions

2) Presentation ­ James Street Road Diet (~30 minutes)

   a)   Who is SMTC?
   b)   Project background
   c)   Overview of 1st meeting
   d)   Process overview
   e)   Today's objectives
   f)   Alternatives overview
   g)   Traffic implications

3) Limited Questions & Answers (5 to 10 minutes)

4) Stations (30 to 45 minutes)

   a) Urban Core Area
   b) Urban Multiple Use Area
   c) Urban Residential Area

5) Summary / Next Steps / Questions & Answers


Contact Information:
Michael D. Alexander
Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
100 Clinton Square
126 N. Salina Street, Suite 100
Syracuse, New York 13202
(315) 422-5716
Fax: (315) 422-7753
malexander@smtcmpo.org
James Street Road Diet Study Area
Summary of Public Meeting #2 
James Street Road Diet 
Wednesday, August 31, 2011, 6:30pm 
Lincoln Middle School
1613 James Street
Syracuse, New York 13203


This was the second Public Meeting for the James Street Road Diet Project. The
meeting agenda is attached. Below is a summary of the discussion items from the
meeting.

I.     Welcome and Introductions
       The meeting opened with an introduction by Mike Alexander of SMTC. Mike
       offered a summary of SMTC and an overview of the James Street Road Diet
       project. Some key points from the welcome and introductions were:

          ·   SMTC was asked by the City of Syracuse to conduct the study.
          ·   The study is funded through federal funds allocated specifically for
              planning studies conducted anywhere within the SMTC Metropolitan
              Planning Area (all of Onondaga County, plus small portions of Oswego
              and Madison Counties). These funds cannot be spent on anything else
              (e.g. infrastructure improvements). They must be spent on planning
              studies. This study is not funded using City taxes.
          ·   SMTC does not own or control infrastructure/ facilities (in this case, the
              City of Syracuse and Centro do).
          ·   It is up to the City/ Centro to implement any ideas/ recommendations that
              come out of this plan.
          ·   The purpose of this study is to:
                   o Identify ways to calm traffic along the corridor;
                   o Improve the corridor for all users (multi-modal), including
                       motorists, buses (transit), bicyclists, and pedestrians with minimal
                       impacts to motorists.
          ·   Review of key points from the first public meeting.
          ·   SMTC would like feedback from the public on the design alternatives that
              were developed.

II.    Presentation of Alternatives
       Fred Frank of Wendel introduced the five alternatives that were developed along
       with features of each alternative. The five alternatives presented were:
           · Alternative 1 ­ No Build
           · Alternative 2 ­ Pavement Reallocation
           · Alternative 3 ­ Enhanced Transit
           · Alternative 4 ­ Roadway Reconstruction
           · Alternative 5 ­ Traffic Signal Coordination Without Road Diet Element
Public Meeting #2
August 31, 2011
Page 2



        A brief explanation of the benefits of each alternative was provided as well as an
        explanation of how alternatives will be evaluated.

        Gordon Stansbury provided a summary of the traffic implications of each
        alternative, including the measures of effectiveness that are to be used in
        evaluating each alternative. In general, the public preferred a roundabout design
        over the five-legged signalized intersection design. Some concern was
        expressed as to whether buses can adequately maneuver around a roundabout.

III.    Mid-Session Question and Answer
        Mike Alexander and Mark Mistretta facilitated a mid-session question and answer
        session before the break-out groups began. This brief question and answer
        session focused on any questions directly related to process. Questions and
        comments related to the individual alternatives were reserved for the break-out
        sessions. A summary of this question and answer session is attached.

IV.     Break-Out Sessions
        Mike Alexander facilitated the group breaking out into the three workstations.
        The three workstations were facilitated by Wendel and SMTC staff and were
        determined based on the three character areas of the corridor, Urban Core,
        Urban Multiple Use, and Urban Residential areas. At each of these workstations,
        the group facilitator provided an in-depth summary of each alternative for that
        particular character area, discussed the features of each alternative, and
        engaged the public in a question and answer session. Each workstation session
        lasted approximately 15 minutes, after which time the group would rotate to
        another workstation.

        Each citizen was given three stickers to indicate the alternative that they
        preferred in each character area.

        In addition to the three workstations, Gordon Stansbury facilitated a separate
        workstation that focused on the possible alternatives for the intersection of
        James Street/ Grant Boulevard/ Shotwell Park.

V.      Discussion Summary/ Wrap-Up Question & Answer Session
        The break-out groups reconvened after about a 45-minute break-out session.
        Mike Alexander then facilitated a general wrap-up and question and answer
        session. A summary of this session is attached.

The meeting concluded without further discussion.

Wendel Duchscherer


Michael F. Leydecker, PE
                                                                                             ]
Public Meeting #2
August 31, 2011
Page 3



Summary of Public Meeting #2 MidSession Question and Answer 
Mike Alexander and Mark Mistretta facilitated a mid-session question and answer
session before the break-out groups began. This brief question and answer session
focused on any questions directly related to process. Questions and comments related
to the individual alternatives were reserved for the break-out sessions. The questions/
comments were as follows with responses provided by SMTC or Wendel:

    1. On average, it will take about 15 seconds less to travel the entire length of the
       James Street corridor under Alternative 5. Is this correct?

        Response: It's difficult to say what the reduction in travel time is for each
        individual since the travel time saved is determined network-side, but on
        average, each driver traveling the entire corridor would experience a travel time
        reduction of about 15 seconds.

        The following tables display the arterial and network Measures of Effectiveness
        for the five alternatives.




                                                                                            ]
Public Meeting #2
August 31, 2011
Page 4




    2. If one of these alternatives were implemented, how would it be paid for?

        Response: The City of Syracuse, as the facility owner, could pay for the project
        by itself or could request reimbursement through federal dollars.

    3. It would be helpful in identifying a preferred alternative if associated costs for
       each alternative were provided.

        Response: Comment taken. Costs were not developed for each alternative but
        will be developed in general for a preferred alternative.

    4. Was there an alternative developed that looked at keeping the roadway as is, but
       removing stopped buses from the travel lane?

        Response: This concept was not developed as an alternative because it may not
        meet the goals of the project.

    5. Will any of these alternatives require improvements on adjacent properties?

        Response: Improvements recommended in every alternative are within the
        James Street right-of-way.

    6. Concerned about the impacts of implementing a road diet and doesn't like the
       results of the road diet on Genesee Street in the City of Syracuse.

        Response: Comment acknowledged.


                                                                                            ]
Public Meeting #2
August 31, 2011
Page 5



    7. During rush hour, long queues are present on James Street. What are the
       implications of delay and queuing with any of the alternatives?

        Response: In general, delays and queuing are reduced because left turning
        vehicles are removed from the travel lane.

    8. Concerned about the safety of buses pulling out of the pull-off lane into traffic.

        Response: Each alternative that recommends a bus pull-off also recommends
        that the bus stop be placed at the far side of an intersection, allowing a bus to
        pull out of a pull-off lane while the traffic light for James Street is on the red
        phase.

    9. Does this study provide pedestrian amenities?

        Response: This study is a multi-modal study and takes all modes of
        transportation into account.




                                                                                             ]
Public Meeting #2
August 31, 2011
Page 6



Summary of Public Meeting #2 BreakOut Sessions 
Urban Core Character Area (Oswego Boulevard to Lodi Street)
Facilitators: Fred Frank and Danielle Krol

The questions/ comments were as follows with responses provided by SMTC or Wendel:
   1. Wonder who will use bike lanes in winter.

        Response: Comment acknowledged.

    2. Maintenance of sidewalks has been an issue. Will pedestrian and bicycle
       facilities be maintained?

        Response: Paul Mercurio from the City of Syracuse explained that the City has a
        law in place that places the responsibility for the maintenance of sidewalks onto
        the adjacent property owner. If desired, this project could certainly include as
        one of its recommendations that the City revisit this law and consider taking over
        the maintenance of the sidewalks or multi-use trails that could be constructed
        along the James Street corridor.

    3. Wonders if the ultimate goal of this project is to provide bike lanes.

        Response: Comment acknowledged.

    4. People can ride bikes in the parks.

        Response: Comment acknowledged.

    5. Would be helpful if associated costs were provided for each alternative. In
       general, which alternative is the most expensive and which the most
       inexpensive?

        Response: In general, Alternative 1 would be the most inexpensive since it
        involves no improvements. Alternatives 3 and 5 would be in the middle as
        relocating the curb is not necessary. Alternatives 2 and 4 would be the most
        expensive since they involve moving the curb to some extend (either for bus pull-
        offs or to make the roadway wider or narrower)

    6. The pedestrian signal at the intersection of James Street and Lodi stays on red
       phase.

        Response: Comment acknowledged.



                                                                                             ]
Public Meeting #2
August 31, 2011
Page 7



    7. Countdown timers for pedestrian signals with sound notification should be placed
       at every intersection.

        Response: Comment acknowledged.

    8. Save the trees!

        Response: Comment acknowledged.

    9. Is there any consideration for green stormwater options in this section like in the
       Urban Residential area?

        Response: While not specifically identified in the Urban Core area, green
        stormwater options can be implemented, such as the use of rain gardens.

Each citizen was given three stickers to indicate the alternative that they preferred in
each character area. Below is list of how the alternatives ranked from 1 through 5 for this
character area, with 1 being the alternative most preferred and 5 being the alternative
least preferred.
    1. Alternative 5 ­ Traffic Signal Coordination w/o Road Diet
    2. Alternative 2 ­ Pavement Reallocation
    3. Alternative 1 ­ Retain Existing Conditions
    4. Alternative 3 ­ Enhanced Transit
    4. Alternative 4 ­ Roadway Reconstruction

Urban Multiple Use Character Area (Lodi Street to Sedgwick Street)
Facilitators: Mike Leydecker and Meghan Vitale

The questions/ comments were as follows with responses provided by SMTC or Wendel:
   1. Under Alternative 3, how are left turn lanes included at intersections?

        Response: Under Alternative 3, dedicated left turn lanes would be provided at
        signalized intersections by widening the intersections.

    2. General concern over whether left turns will be impacted by any of the
       alternatives.

        Response: Under alternatives 3 and 5, dedicated left turn lanes would be
        provided at signalized intersections. Under alternatives 2 and 4, a continuous
        center two way left turn lane would be provided to remove left turning vehicles
        from the travel lane.

                                                                                             ]
Public Meeting #2
August 31, 2011
Page 8



    3. There may be an issue with elevation change at bus stops.

        Response: Comment acknowledged.

    4. Countdown timers for pedestrian signals with sound notification should be placed
       at every intersection.

        Response: Comment acknowledged.

    5. An exclusive traffic signal phase should be considered at the intersection of
       James Street and Lodi that would allow pedestrians to cross with all approaches
       on a red phase.

        Response: Comment acknowledged.

    6. Removal of snow from sidewalks is an issue.

        Response: Comment acknowledged.

    7. General concern over how safe allowing bicycles to share a dedicated lane with
       buses is.

        Response: Comment acknowledged.

    8. Wondered if there is the potential to incorporate a center bike lane.

        Response: Comment acknowledged.

    9. Under Alternative 4, why would on-street parking be necessary? All the
       businesses have their own lots.

        Response: Comment acknowledged.

    10. Under Alternative 2, would buses need to cross over the bike lane to access a
        bus pull-off?

        Response: Yes, the bike lane would be continuous along the right side of the
        travel lane. Buses would need to use caution when crossing over the bike lane
        to access the bus pull-off.

    11. Don't think it's necessary to change out curb ramps that were just reconstructed.

        Response: Comment acknowledged.


                                                                                            ]
Public Meeting #2
August 31, 2011
Page 9



    12. This study changes the emphasis of the corridor from individual cars to a shared
        corridor.

        Response: Comment acknowledged.

    13. Save the trees!

        Response: Comment acknowledged.

    14. Consideration should be given to using alternative fuel buses.

        Response: Comment acknowledged.

    15. How do speeds impact on-street parking?

        Response: In general, on-street parking aids in calming the speed of traffic as it
        makes the roadway appear narrower and provides street activity; both which tend
        to force drivers to slow down.

    16. Pedestrian safety should be a primary concern (especially in winter).

        Response: Comment acknowledged.

Each citizen was given three stickers to indicate the alternative that they preferred in
each character area. Below is list of how the alternatives ranked from 1 through 5 for this
alternative, with 1 being the alternative most preferred and 5 being the alternative least
preferred.
    1. Alternative 5 ­ Traffic Signal Coordination w/o Road Diet
    2. Alternative 4 ­ Roadway Reconstruction
    3. Alternative 2 ­ Pavement Reallocation
    4. Alternative 1 ­ Retain Existing Conditions
    4. Alternative 3 ­ Enhanced Transit

Urban Residential Character Area (Sedgwick Street to Shotwell Park)
Facilitators: Mark Mistretta and Mike Alexander

The questions/ comments were as follows with responses provided by SMTC or Wendel:
   1. Sidewalks should be replaced/ repaired where necessary to meet ADA
      requirements.

        Response: Comment acknowledged.

                                                                                           ]
Public Meeting #2
August 31, 2011
Page 10



    2. Wondered if on-street bicycle facilities would be maintained and cleared of snow.

        Response: Comment acknowledged.

    3. More trash receptacles are needed along corridor (especially at bus stops).

        Response: Comment acknowledged.

    4. Protect the street trees!

        Response: Comment acknowledged.

    5. Would be helpful if associated costs were provided for each alternative.

        Response: Comment acknowledged.

    6. General concerns about preservation of corridor.

        Response: Comment acknowledged.

    7. With Alternative 3, do bicyclists use the center lanes?

        Response: Bicyclists use the dedicated transit/ bicycle outside lanes.

    8. Wondered if additional environmental review would be required.

        Response: If an alternative is implemented, additional environmental review will
        be required prior to implementing any alternative that disturbs additional land.

    9. Another alternative should be considered that utilizes Alternative 5 but provides
       bus pull-offs to removed stopped buses from the travel lane.

        Response: Comment acknowledged.

    10. General concern over who would maintain sidewalks.

        Response: As is required by law currently, adjacent property owners would be
        responsible for the maintenance of the sidewalk along the frontage of their
        property.

    11. General concerns over how the multi-use trail would interact with side streets.

        Response: The multi-use trail would cross adjacent side streets at grade and
        include crossings similar to those used for sidewalk crossings. Changes would

                                                                                           ]
Public Meeting #2
August 31, 2011
Page 11



        need to be made to the grade of the approaches to each side street so that the
        multi-use trail comes into the side street at-grade.

Each citizen was given three stickers to indicate the alternative that they preferred in
each character area. Below is list of how the alternatives ranked from 1 through 5, with 1
being the alternative most preferred and 5 being the alternative least preferred.
    1. Alternative 5 ­ Traffic Signal Coordination w/o Road Diet
    2. Alternative 4 ­ Roadway Reconstruction
    3. Alternative 2 ­ Pavement Reallocation
    4. Alternative 3 ­ Enhanced Transit
    5. Alternative 1 ­ Retain Existing Conditions

Cumulative Results of Break-Out Sessions
The following table summarizes the results of the break-out sessions in terms of
identifying the number of dots that the public placed on the alternatives for each
character area.

                                                Character Area
                           Urban Core         Urban Multiple Use      Urban Residential
Alternative 1                  5                      3                      1
Alternative 2                    6                      5                       3
Alternative 3                    3                      3                       2
Alternative 4                    3                      9                      10
Alternative 5                   14                      10                     11




                                                                                             ]
Public Meeting #2
August 31, 2011
Page 12



Summary of Public Meeting #2 Final Question and Answer 
After the Break-Out Sessions, the entire group reconvened with Mike Alexander and
Mark Mistretta facilitating a final question and answer session. The following is a
summary of the summary discussion with responses offered by SMTC or Wendel, if
provided:

    1. What is the overall timeframe and who will be responsible for implementing this
       plan?

        Response: The study will be completed in the fall of 2011. After that, it will be the
        responsibility of the City of Syracuse to implement any recommended
        improvements. There is currently no timeframe for that action. Also, the City may
        choose to implement now, later, or never.

    2. General comment that the government is broke and should be spending money.

        Response: Comment acknowledged.

    3. In the future, it would be helpful in identifying a preferred alternative to see
       associated costs for each alternative.

        Response: Comment acknowledged.

    4. Would have been nice if an alternative was developed that looked at keeping the
       roadway as is (four lanes), but removing stopped buses from the travel lane.

        Response: Comment acknowledged.

    5. Sidewalks need to be maintained and cleared of snow.

        Response: Comment acknowledged.

    6. This study should provide a recommendation that the City change their law
       regarding sidewalk maintenance.

        Response: Comment acknowledged.

    7. Approximately what percentage of bus stops would be eliminated under the
       proposed alternatives?

        Response: Only a handful of bus stops would be eliminated. Most would consist
        of relocating the bus stop closer to an intersection and to the far side of an
        intersection.
                                                                                            ]
Public Meeting #2
August 31, 2011
Page 13




    8. Under a scenario where there is only one travel lane in each direction, drivers will
       get stuck behind slow moving buses. With four lanes, slower moving vehicles can
       be passed.

        Response: Comment acknowledged.

    9. Consideration needs to be given to who will maintain a multi-use trail if
       constructed.

        Response: Comment acknowledged.

    10. As an observation, in Paris, there is a high volume of bicycles and pedestrians
        along streets.

        Response: Comment acknowledged.

    11. Pedestrian crossings are not safe. A solution should be developed now to make
        crosswalks safer and to ease the conflict between pedestrians and vehicles.

        Response: Comment acknowledged.

    12. Sidewalks should be replaced or improved where necessary.

        Response: Comment acknowledged.

    13. Over time, the alternatives presented will result in lower maintenance costs and
        lower fuel costs than can be expected if the corridor is kept as is.

        Response: Comment acknowledged.

     




                                                                                           ]
Public Meeting #2
August 31, 2011
Page 14



Summary of Comments Received  
Public Meeting #2 
James Street Road Diet 
Wednesday, August 31, 2011, 6:30pm 
The attached are comments received in reference to Public Meeting #2 of the James Street
Road Diet project.




                                                                                     ]
Thank you for attending the public meeting for the James Street `Road Diet' Study on August 31, 2011.
Please provide any additional comments in the space below.
This form can be returned to the comment box or to any SMTC staff member at tonight's meeting. You may
also return this form via mail (SMTC, 126 N. Salina St., Suite 100, Syracuse, N.Y. 13202) or fax (315-422-7753).
Please return comment forms by September 14, 2011.




Name (optional) __________________________________________________________________________
Address (optional) ________________________________________________________________________
Email (optional) __________________________________________________________________________


Would you like to be added to the SMTC mailing list?     Yes         No


For additional information on the James Street `Road Diet' Study, please contact Mike Alexander at the SMTC by phone
                                   (315-422-5716) or email (malexander@smtcmpo.org).
                                               Place
                                               Stamp
                                                Here




Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
Attn: Mike Alexander
126 North Salina Street
100 Clinton Square, Suite 100
Syracuse, NY 13202
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    APPENDIX C: CNYRTA SERVICE STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES

                  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    APPENDIX D: TRAFFIC ANALYSIS RESULTS

           
                              James Street Diet
                                Syracuse, NY

            Level of Service Summary ­ Morning Peak Hour

                                      2030            2030           2030
                                  Alternative 1   Alternatives   Alternative 5
Intersection                                       2, 3, and 4
James Street @
Oswego Boulevard                     A(8)            A(8)           A(7)
          EB Left/Through/Right      A(7)            A(7)           A(7)
         WB Left/Through/Right       A(6)            A(4)           A(2)
                       NB Left       C(24)           C(24)          C(24)
         NB Left/Through/Right       C(22)           C(22)          C(22)
          SB Left/Through/Right      A(0)            A(0)           A(0)
James Street @
North State Street                   B(16)           B(15)          B(16)
                        EB Left      C(28)           C(27)          C(29)
              EB Through/Right       C(22)           C(22)          C(23)
              WB Left/Through        B(14)           B(11)          B(15)
                      WB Right       A(4)            A(1)           A(3)
                       NB Left       C(22)           C(22)          C(22)
             NB Through/Right        B(20)           B(20)          B(20)
                        SB Left      B(13)           B(15)          B(13)
              SB Through/Right       B(13)           B(14)          B(13)
James Street @
North Townsend Street                B(12)          B(17)           B(15)
                        EB Left        -            B(13)             -
        EB (Left)/Through/Right      A(5)           B(18)           C(20)
                       WB Left         -            B(11)             -
       WB (Left)/Through/Right       A(8)           B(138)          A(4)
                       NB Left       C(26)          C(26)           C(26)
                    NB Through       C(22)          C(22)           C(22)
                      NB Right       A(5)            A(5)           A(5)
                        SB Left      B(17)          B(17)           B(17)
              SB Through/Right       B(19)          B(19)           B(19)
James Street @
North McBride Street                 A(6)            A(6)           A(6)
                        EB Left        -             A(4)             -
        EB (Left)/Through/Right      A(2)            A(3)           A(8)
                       WB Left         -             A(2)             -
       WB (Left)/Through/Right       A(7)            A(5)           A(3)
         NB Left/Through/Right       B(20)           B(20)          B(20)
          SB Left/Through/Right      B(18)           B(18)          B(18)
James Street @
Catherine Street                     A(9)            A(10)          A(10)
                        EB Left        -             A(4)             -
        EB (Left)/Through/Right      A(1)            A(4)           A(2)
                       WB Left         -             A(5)             -
       WB (Left)/Through/Right       A(8)            A(8)           A(10)
         NB Left/Through/Right       C(24)           C(24)          C(24)
          SB Left/Through/Right      C(23)           C(23)          C(23)
                                       2030               2030           2030
                                   Alternative 1      Alternatives   Alternative 5
Intersection                                           2, 3, and 4
James Street @
Lodi Street                             B(16)             B(12)         B(14)
                          EB Left         -                A(4)           -
        EB (Left)/Through/Right         B(11)              A(5)         A(7)
                         WB Left          -                A(2)           -
        WB (Left)/Through/Right         A(10)              A(5)         A(7)
         NB Left/Through/Right          C(29)             C(29)         C(29)
          SB Left/Through/Right         C(29)             C(29)         C(29)
James Street @
Oak Street                              B(12)             B(18)         B(14)
                          EB Left         -               B(18)           -
        EB (Left)/Through/Right         A(8)              B(12)         A(8)
                         WB Left          -               A(10)           -
        WB (Left)/Through/Right         A(5)              B(14)         A(9)
         NB Left/Through/Right          C(33)             D(39)         C(32)
          SB Left/Through/Right         B(15)             B(19)         B(17)
James Street @
DeWitt Street                           B(11)             B(13)         A(8)
                          EB Left         -                A(6)           -
        EB (Left)/Through/Right         B(11)              A(5)         A(5)
                         WB Left          -                A(0)           -
        WB (Left)/Through/Right         A(5)              B(11)         A(4)
         NB Left/Through/Right          B(14)             B(20)         B(17)
          SB Left/Through/Right         C(27)             D(43)         C(33)
James Street @
Sedgwick Street                         A(8)               A(9)         A(7)
               EB Through/Right         A(4)               A(9)         A(5)
                         WB Left          -                A(2)           -
              WB (Left)/Through         B(11)              A(7)         A(5)
                   NB Left/Right        B(17)             C(25)         C(22)
James Street @
Wilson Street                           A(5)               A(5)         A(2)
               EB Through/Right         A(6)               A(4)         A(1)
                         WB Left          -                A(1)           -
              WB (Left)/Through         A(4)               A(4)         A(2)
                   NB Left/Right        B(13)             B(17)         B(17)
James Street @
Teall Avenue                            C(26)             C(26)         C(21)
                          EB Left       D(42)             D(46)         C(34)
             EB Through/(Right)         C(30)             B(17)         C(24)
                         EB Right         -                A(5)           -
                         WB Left        D(43)             D(49)         D(47)
              WB Through/Right          C(32)             B(15)         B(13)
         NB Left/Through/Right          C(23)             D(42)         C(26)
          SB Left/Through/Right         B(16)             B(20)         B(16)
James Street @
Shotwell Park / Grant Blvd.            F(141)             E(63)         D(52)
                          EB Left       A(8)               A(3)          A(3)
               EB Through/Right         B(11)             B(18)         C(29)
                WB Left/Through         D(51)             D(50)         D(50)
                       WB Right         D(41)             D(36)         D(36)
                   NB Left/Right        C(21)             B(11)          A(9)
  SB Left/Through/Right (Grant)        F(624)             F(214)        F(136)
       SB Left/Right (Walgreens)        D(37)             D(39)         D(44)
A(9) ­ Level of Service (Average Delay per Vehicle in Seconds)
                                 James Street Diet
                                   Syracuse, NY

            Level of Service Summary ­ Evening Peak Hour

                                       2030            2030           2030
                                   Alternative 1   Alternatives   Alternative 5
Intersection                                        2, 3, and 4
James Street @
Oswego Boulevard                      D(52)           C(26)          C(30)
        EB Left/Through/Right         B(15)           C(28)          C(27)
        WB Left/Through/Right         D(36)           B(17)          C(26)
                      NB Left         F(201)          D(54)          E(62)
        NB Left/Through/Right         F(112)          C(24)          C(28)
         SB Left/Through/Right        C(26)           C(33)          C(28)
James Street @
North State Street                    C(32)           C(30)          C(24)
                       EB Left        C(28)           C(27)          C(23)
             EB Through/Right         C(27)           C(22)          B(19)
             WB Left/Through          C(28)           C(25)          C(21)
                     WB Right         B(14)           B(14)          B(11)
                      NB Left         B(20)           B(20)          B(18)
             NB Through/Right         D(49)           D(49)          D(37)
                       SB Left        B(15)           B(18)          B(17)
             SB Through/Right         A(10)           B(11)          A(10)
James Street @
North Townsend Street                 C(23)           C(21)          B(16)
                       EB Left           -            B(20)            -
       EB (Left)/Through/Right         A(6)           B(16)          B(12)
                      WB Left            -            B(15)            -
      WB (Left)/Through/Right          A(7)           B(20)          A(7)
                      NB Left         F(108)          D(47)          D(47)
                   NB Through         C(31)           C(23)          C(23)
                     NB Right          A(4)           A(4)           A(4)
                       SB Left        C(27)           B(18)          B(18)
             SB Through/Right         C(23)           B(19)          B(19)
James Street @
North McBride Street                  A(8)            B(11)          B(11)
                       EB Left          -             A(4)             -
       EB (Left)/Through/Right        A(3)            A(4)           A(4)
                      WB Left           -             A(6)             -
      WB (Left)/Through/Right         A(5)            B(11)          B(11)
        NB Left/Through/Right         C(24)           C(25)          C(24)
         SB Left/Through/Right        C(29)           C(30)          C(29)
James Street @
Catherine Street                      C(35)           B(20)          B(18)
                       EB Left           -            A(6)             -
       EB (Left)/Through/Right         A(4)           A(10)          B(15)
                      WB Left            -            B(19)            -
      WB (Left)/Through/Right          A(7)           B(18)          B(13)
        NB Left/Through/Right         F(141)          D(42)          C(34)
         SB Left/Through/Right        C(26)           B(20)          B(18)
                                       2030              2030           2030
                                   Alternative 1     Alternatives   Alternative 5
 Intersection                                         2, 3, and 4
 James Street @
 Lodi Street                           C(23)             C(22)         C(21)
                         EB Left          -               A(4)           -
        EB (Left)/Through/Right        B(17)              A(9)         B(11)
                         WB Left          -               A(6)           -
       WB (Left)/Through/Right         C(23)             B(18)         B(12)
         NB Left/Through/Right         C(29)             D(39)         D(38)
         SB Left/Through/Right         B(20)             C(25)         C(25)
 James Street @
 Oak Street                            B(17)             B(18)         B(13)
                         EB Left          -               A(4)           -
        EB (Left)/Through/Right        B(14)             A(10)         A(4)
                         WB Left          -              B(17)           -
       WB (Left)/Through/Right         B(11)             B(12)         A(6)
         NB Left/Through/Right         C(32)             D(46)         D(46)
         SB Left/Through/Right         C(25)             C(33)         C(32)
 James Street @
 DeWitt Street                          A(9)             B(17)         A(9)
                         EB Left          -               A(5)           -
        EB (Left)/Through/Right         A(4)             B(15)         A(5)
                         WB Left          -               A(5)           -
       WB (Left)/Through/Right          A(7)             B(11)         A(6)
         NB Left/Through/Right         B(15)             C(21)         B(18)
         SB Left/Through/Right         C(31)             D(44)         D(36)
 James Street @
 Sedgwick Street                        A(8)              A(8)         A(8)
              EB Through/Right          A(9)              A(6)         A(6)
                         WB Left          -               A(0)           -
             WB (Left)/Through          A(6)              A(8)         A(9)
                   NB Left/Right       B(18)             C(31)         C(23)
 James Street @
 Wilson Street                          A(8)              A(3)         A(2)
              EB Through/Right         B(11)              A(3)         A(2)
                         WB Left          -               A(1)           -
             WB (Left)/Through          A(3)              A(2)         A(1)
                   NB Left/Right       B(15)             C(21)         B(19)
 James Street @
 Teall Avenue                          D(37)             C(33)         C(27)
                         EB Left       E(63)             D(52)         D(47)
             EB Through/(Right)        D(41)             C(23)         B(18)
                        EB Right          -               A(3)           -
                         WB Left       E(60)             E(69)         D(52)
              WB Through/Right         D(37)             C(20)         C(22)
         NB Left/Through/Right         C(32)             D(48)         C(33)
         SB Left/Through/Right         C(23)             C(24)         C(21)
 James Street @
 Shotwell Park / Grant Blvd.           F(171)            F(84)         E(80)
                         EB Left        A(8)              A(3)          A(3)
              EB Through/Right         B(11)             B(11)         B(12)
               WB Left/Through         D(41)             C(33)         C(33)
                       WB Right        E(69)             D(53)         D(53)
                   NB Left/Right       B(16)             B(12)         B(12)
  SB Left/Through/Right (Grant)        F(713)            F(309)        F(292)
      SB Left/Right (Walgreens)        D(37)             D(47)         D(51)
A(9) ­ Level of Service (Average Delay per Vehicle in Seconds)
                                        James Street Diet
                                          Syracuse, NY

                        Queue Summary ­ Morning Peak Hour

                                Available         2030            2030           2030
                                Turn Bay      Alternative 1   Alternatives   Alternative 5
Intersection                     Storage                       2, 3, and 4

James Street @
Oswego Boulevard
        EB Left/Through/Right       -              78             78              78
       WB Left/Through/Right        -              48             12              12
                      NB Left       -              53             53              53
       NB Left/Through/Right        -              51             51              51
        SB Left/Through/Right       -              0              0               0
James Street @
North State Street
                      EB Left     150              55             37             32
             EB Through/Right      -              112             77             67
             WB Left/Through       -              134             92             107
                    WB Right      150              28              7             25
                      NB Left     120              25             25             25
            NB Through/Right       -               56             57             56
                      SB Left     120              45             48             45
             SB Through/Right      -              68              74             68
James Street @
North Townsend Street
                      EB Left     ~150              -             19              -
      EB (Left)/Through/Right       -              11             274            125
                      WB Left     ~150              -             16              -
     WB (Left)/Through/Right        -              21             132            35
                      NB Left      105             93             93             93
                   NB Through       -             146             146            146
                     NB Right       -              16             16             16
                      SB Left      150             18             18             18
             SB Through/Right       -             103             103            103
James Street @
North McBride Street
                      EB Left     ~150              -             4                -
      EB (Left)/Through/Right       -             18              31              43
                      WB Left     ~150              -              1               -
     WB (Left)/Through/Right        -             117             50              22
       NB Left/Through/Right        -              39             39              39
        SB Left/Through/Right       -              28             28              28
James Street @
Catherine Street
                      EB Left     ~150              -              3               -
      EB (Left)/Through/Right       -              8              67              15
                      WB Left     ~150              -             16               -
     WB (Left)/Through/Right        -             102             183              9
       NB Left/Through/Right        -             87              87              87
        SB Left/Through/Right       -              79             79              79
                                Available        2030              2030           2030
                                Turn Bay     Alternative 1     Alternatives   Alternative 5
Intersection                     Storage                        2, 3, and 4

James Street @
Lodi Street
                       EB Left    ~150              -                6             -
       EB (Left)/Through/Right      -              62               140           135
                       WB Left    ~150              -                2             -
      WB (Left)/Through/Right       -             187               61            210
        NB Left/Through/Right       -              83               83            83
         SB Left/Through/Right      -              75               75            75
James Street @
Oak Street
                       EB Left    ~150              -               60             -
       EB (Left)/Through/Right      -              61               237           88
                       WB Left    ~150              -               10             -
      WB (Left)/Through/Right       -              10               183           86
        NB Left/Through/Right       -             178               207           165
         SB Left/Through/Right      -              55               67            58
James Street @
DeWitt Street
                       EB Left    ~150              -                6             -
       EB (Left)/Through/Right      -              90               83            71
                       WB Left    ~150              -                0             -
      WB (Left)/Through/Right       -              22               54            28
        NB Left/Through/Right       -               8               10             9
         SB Left/Through/Right      -              99               150           115
James Street @
Sedgwick Street
              EB Through/Right      -              17               210            34
                       WB Left    ~150              -                1              -
            WB (Left)/Through       -             171                8             48
                 NB Left/Right      -              59               79             75
James Street @
Wilson Street
              EB Through/Right      -              80               205            13
                       WB Left    ~150              -                2              -
            WB (Left)/Through       -              93               236            45
                 NB Left/Right      -              18               23             23
James Street @
Teall Avenue
                       EB Left     160             94                79           68
            EB Through/(Right)      -             180               219           141
                      EB Right    ~200                              16
                       WB Left     125             80               60            60
             WB Through/Right       -             161               144           86
        NB Left/Through/Right       -             180               183           134
         SB Left/Through/Right      -             147               124           102
James Street @
Shotwell Park / Grant Blvd.
                       EB Left     100             37                6             5
              EB Through/Right      -             149               214           260
               WB Left/Through      -             277               245           245
                     WB Right      150            173               137           137
                 NB Left/Right      -              55               35            32
 SB Left/Through/Right (Grant)      -             357               240           213
     SB Left/Right (Walgreens)      -              19               18            19
95th Percentile Maximum Queues ­ Queues and Storage shown in Feet
                                    James Street Diet
                                      Syracuse, NY

                        Queue Summary ­ Evening Peak Hour

                                Available       2030            2030           2030
                                Turn Bay    Alternative 1   Alternatives   Alternative 5
Intersection                     Storage                     2, 3, and 4
James Street @
Oswego Boulevard
        EB Left/Through/Right       -           128             162            162
       WB Left/Through/Right        -           163             186            183
                     NB Left        -           181             151            155
       NB Left/Through/Right        -           167             121            126
        SB Left/Through/Right       -            19              20            20
James Street @
North State Street
                      EB Left     150            53              25             21
             EB Through/Right      -            146              88            70
             WB Left/Through       -            136             140            119
                    WB Right      150            82              82            71
                     NB Left      120            26              26            24
            NB Through/Right       -            322             322            305
                      SB Left     120            44              47             47
             SB Through/Right      -             35             37             35
James Street @
North Townsend Street
                      EB Left     ~150            -              6               -
      EB (Left)/Through/Right       -            40              84            90
                     WB Left      ~150            -               9              -
     WB (Left)/Through/Right        -            42             402            42
                     NB Left       105          219             192            191
                  NB Through        -           240             215            215
                    NB Right        -            22              20            20
                      SB Left      150           32              27             27
             SB Through/Right       -           151             134            134
James Street @
North McBride Street
                      EB Left     ~150            -              5              -
      EB (Left)/Through/Right       -            32              59            47
                     WB Left      ~150            -               3             -
     WB (Left)/Through/Right        -            57             153            168
       NB Left/Through/Right        -            54              55            54
        SB Left/Through/Right       -           110             113            110
James Street @
Catherine Street
                      EB Left     ~150            -              5              -
      EB (Left)/Through/Right       -           30              153            172
                     WB Left      ~150            -              26             -
     WB (Left)/Through/Right        -            75             220            181
       NB Left/Through/Right        -           313             253            234
        SB Left/Through/Right       -            91              79            76
James Street @
Lodi Street
                      EB Left     ~150           -               1              -
      EB (Left)/Through/Right       -           230             71             216
                     WB Left      ~150           -               2              -
     WB (Left)/Through/Right        -           196             335            146
                                 Available        2030              2030           2030
                                 Turn Bay     Alternative 1     Alternatives   Alternative 5
 Intersection                     Storage                        2, 3, and 4
         NB Left/Through/Right       -             143               183           181
         SB Left/Through/Right       -              60                74           74
 James Street @
 Oak Street
                       EB Left     ~150              -               3              -
       EB (Left)/Through/Right       -             190              323            39
                       WB Left     ~150              -               39             -
       WB (Left)/Through/Right       -             130              259            80
         NB Left/Through/Right       -             100              135            126
         SB Left/Through/Right       -             101              134            125
 James Street @
 DeWitt Street
                       EB Left     ~150              -               8              -
       EB (Left)/Through/Right       -              18              433            84
                       WB Left     ~150              -               0              -
       WB (Left)/Through/Right       -              91              320            122
         NB Left/Through/Right       -              18               22            19
         SB Left/Through/Right       -             107              150            117
 James Street @
 Sedgwick Street
              EB Through/Right       -              93              107            114
                       WB Left     ~150              -               18             -
             WB (Left)/Through       -              43              218            82
                  NB Left/Right      -              54               75            66
 James Street @
 Wilson Street
              EB Through/Right       -             198              117             39
                       WB Left     ~150              -                2              -
             WB (Left)/Through       -              67              145              4
                  NB Left/Right      -              18               25             23
 James Street @
 Teall Avenue
                       EB Left     160             264              163            162
            EB Through/(Right)       -             245              242            137
                      EB Right     ~200              -               20             -
                       WB Left      125            177              140            117
             WB Through/Right        -             143              104            66
         NB Left/Through/Right       -             258              220            194
         SB Left/Through/Right       -             200              146            133
 James Street @
 Shotwell Park / Grant Blvd.
                       EB Left      100             41               13             11
              EB Through/Right       -             163              164            159
               WB Left/Through       -             277              223            223
                      WB Right      150            322              256            256
                  NB Left/Right      -              50               40            39
 SB Left/Through/Right (Grant)       -             482              369            364
      SB Left/Right (Walgreens)      -              62               63             67
95th Percentile Maximum Queues ­ Queues and Storage shown in Feet
                                 James Street Diet
                                   Syracuse, NY

  Arterial and Network Measures of Effectiveness ­ Morning Peak Hour

                                     2030                2030              2030
                                 Alternative 1       Alternatives      Alternative 5
 Measure of Effectiveness                             2, 3, and 4
 Arterial
       Travel Time EB (sec)           394.3          401.9 (+7.6)      416.2 (+21.9)
      Travel Time WB (sec)            385.5          369.2 (-16.3)     348.6 (-36.9)
       Signal Delay EB (sec)          115.4          121.3 (+5.9)      137.3 (+21.9)
      Signal Delay WB (sec)           111.6           95.3 (-16.3)      74.7 (-36.9)
    Arterial Speed EB (mph)            19.4           19.2 (-0.2)       18.4 (-1.0)
   Arterial Speed WB (mph)             19.6           20.4 (+0.8)       21.7 (+1.2)

 Network
           Total Delay (hrs)          151             111 (-40)           96 (-55)
             Total Stops (#)         11,715          11,690 (-25)     10,505 (-1,210)
     Fuel Consumption (gal)           321             292 (-29)          274 (-47)


  Arterial and Network Measures of Effectiveness ­ Evening Peak Hour

                                     2030                2030              2030
                                 Alternative 1       Alternatives      Alternative 5
 Measure of Effectiveness                             2, 3, and 4
 Arterial
       Travel Time EB (sec)           438.3          436.8 (-1.5)       412.6 (-25.7)
      Travel Time WB (sec)            444.2          436.3 (-7.9)       406.9 (-37.3)
       Signal Delay EB (sec)          159.4          156.3 (-3.1)       133.7 (-25.7)
      Signal Delay WB (sec)           170.3          162.4 (-7.9)       133.0 (-27.3)
    Arterial Speed EB (mph)           17.5           17.6 (+0.1)         18.6 (+1.1)
   Arterial Speed WB (mph)            17.0           17.3 (+0.3)         18.6 (+1.6)

 Network
           Total Delay (hrs)          275             194 (-81)         171 (-104)
             Total Stops (#)         16,373         15,507 (-866)     14,499 (-1,874)
     Fuel Consumption (gal)           460             397 (-63)          374 (-86)


Arterial Measures of Effectiveness
Travel Time = Average total travel time per vehicle traveling through entire corridor in seconds
Signal Delay = Average total signal delay per vehicle traveling through entire corridor in seconds
Arterial Speed ­ Overall average speed for length of corridor including delay/stopped time

Network Measures of Effectiveness
Total Delay = Total cumulative delay time for all traffic traveling within the corridor in hours
Total Stops = Total cumulative number of vehicle stops within the corridor
Fuel Consumption = Total cumulative fuel consumed by all vehicles in corridor in gallons

All Measures of Effectiveness are for the morning or evening peak hours only.
                                       James Street Diet
                                         Syracuse, NY

     James Street/ Shotwell Park/ Grant Boulevard Intersection Alternatives

                                          Roundabout

                                     Morning Peak Hour
   James Street @
   Shotwell Park / Grant Blvd.                  a(3)               Maximum Queue
             Eastbound James St.                a(4)                   119 feet
            Westbound James St.                 a(3)                   160 feet
       Northbound Shotwell Park                 a(2)                    48 feet
          Southbound Grant Blvd.                a(3)                   103 feet
       Southbound Eastwood Rd.                  a(2)                    16 feet
  a(5) ­ Level of Service (Average Delay per Vehicle in Seconds)

                                      Evening Peak Hour
   James Street @
   Shotwell Park / Grant Blvd.                  a(8)               Maximum Queue
             Eastbound James St.                a(7)                   228 feet
            Westbound James St.                b(11)                   221 feet
       Northbound Shotwell Park                 a(3)                    93 feet
          Southbound Grant Blvd.                a(8)                   199 feet
       Southbound Eastwood Rd.                  a(2)                    16 feet
  a(5) ­ Level of Service (Average Delay per Vehicle in Seconds)


                                      Five Legged Signal

                                     Morning Peak Hour
James Street @
Shotwell Park / Grant Blvd.                      C(27)              Maximum Queue
                    EB Left - James              B(20)                   85 feet
                EB Through - James               B(18)                  250 feet
         WB Left/Through - James                 C(34)                  344 feet
                  WB Right - James               C(27)                  206 feet
 NB Left/Through/Right - Shotwell                B(18)                  80 feet
                    SB Left - Grant              D(47)                  254 feet
         SB Through/Right ­ Grant                B(13)                  62 feet
SW Left/Through/Right - Eastwood                 D(37)                  39 feet
A(5) ­ Level of Service (Average Delay per Vehicle in Seconds)

                                      Evening Peak Hour
James Street @
Shotwell Park / Grant Blvd.                      D(44)              Maximum Queue
                    EB Left - James               E(65)                 181 feet
                EB Through - James               C(21)                  288 feet
         WB Left/Through - James                 D(53)                  462 feet
                  WB Right - James               D(48)                  396 feet
 NB Left/Through/Right - Shotwell                B(16)                  74 feet
                    SB Left - Grant               E(70)                 358 feet
         SB Through/Right ­ Grant                B(15)                  90 feet
SW Left/Through/Right - Eastwood                 D(45)                  70 feet
A(5) ­ Level of Service (Average Delay per Vehicle in Seconds)
                                                Grant Boulevard
                                                                                                               Walgreens




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Matchline B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     658




                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                           0




                                                                                                       8
                                                                       198




                                                                                                           5
                                                                                                                           215                                                                                        13




                                                                        58
                                                                        36
                                                                                                                           343
                                                                                                                           8
                                                                                                                                       James Street                                              1
                                                                                               50                                                                                              64




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      24
                                                                                                                                                                                                35




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       18
                        Teall Avenue                                                           85                                                                                                         7
                                                                                                                                       DeWitt Street                                                    49 9




                                                                                       37
                                                                                       61
                                                                                              542
                                                                        8
                                          10                          41 5
                                                                         2                                                                                        0
                                           368                                                                                                                  10 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                  28
                                                                                                                                                                                                   99
                                             68                                                                                                                  64                  8                               Wilson Street
                          372




                                                                                                                                                                                   47 7




                                                                                                                                                14
                                                                                                                                                                   0
                           6
                            161




                                                                                                                                                  9
                                                                                                                Oak Street                                                           9




                                                                                                                                               5
                                                                                                                                               44
                                                                           Shotwell Park
                                                77




                                                                                                                                  26 5




                                                                                                                                                                               2
                                                 295 2




                                                                                                                                                                           1
                                                   14




                                 85                                                                                                62                                                        Sedgwick Street




                                                                                                                                                                       6
Matchline B




                                    0                                                                                                39              25
                                 36 6




                                                                                                                 23
                                    7                                                                                                                424 9




                                                                                                                  73
                                                                                                                    33
                                           Teall Avenue




                                                                                                                                    82 4
                                                                                                    53 8                                                           Daybreak                  N. Townsend Street




                                                                                                                                     14




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Matchline A
                                                                                                                                       92
                                                                         Lodi Street                 67                  65                                        Driveway
                                                                                                      19                    3                                                                                       59 7
                                                                                 32                                      35 6                                                                                        52
                                                                              210                                           5
                                                  Catherine Street                                                  44                                                                                                 62




                                                                                                                                                                                                     22
                                                                                                                                                                                                     15 5
                                                                              15                                  223               Oak Street                 N. State Street




                                                                                                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                                                                                                        2
                                                                     18                                          28
                                                                      598                  25                                                                                             141




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       49
                                                                        105                398




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        238 1
                                                                                                                                                                                           419




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          14
                                                                                                               Lodi Street
                                                     106




                                                                                                                                                                                                            24
                                                      2




                                                                                              44                                                                                            133




                                                                                                                                                                   102
                                                        30




                                                                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                                                                            43 4




                                                                                                                                                                    299
                    N. McBride Street                                                                                            Parking Lot                                                                   3




                                                                                                                                                                       18
                                                                        47
                                                                         66




                                        29 4
                                                                           39




                                                                                                                                                     5                                                             N. Townsend Street




                                                                                                                                                                                            33 4
                                         62                 12
                                                                                                                                                         387




                                                                                                                                                                                             16
                                                            418 6




                                                                                                                                                                                               29
                                           14                                                                                                             74                   65
                        13




                                                               3                                                                                                                  4
                         17




                                                                                                                                                                               35 6
                                                                                                                                           0
                           11




                                                                                                                                       0                                          4
                                                                                                                                   0

                                                                     Catherine Street
                                           10




                                                                                                                                                                   6
                                                                                                                                                                                          N. State Street
                                            35
      Matchline A




                                                                                                                                                               1
                                              13




                                                                                                                                                          13
                               49                                                                                                          10

                                                                                                                                                            8
                               443                                                                                                         459
                                  10                                                                                                        172
                                                                                                       James Street
                                       N. McBride Street                                                                                            Oswego Boulevard

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N
         James Street Diet
          2009 Existing Traffic Volumes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W O  E
          Morning Peak Hour                                                                                      Figure 1                                                                                          GTS Consulting
                                                Grant Boulevard
                                                                                                            Walgreens




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Matchline B
                                                                                                       10
                                                                                                                        8                                                                                       496




                                                                                                     27
                                                                                                    32
                                                                      274
                                                                                                                        322                                                                                      23




                                                                       70
                                                                       60
                                                                                                                        365
                                                                                                                        12
                                                                                                                                    James Street                                              8
                                                                                                76                                                                                          48




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 18
                                                                                                                                                                                             24




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  16
                        Teall Avenue                                                            91                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                    DeWitt Street                                                   75 7




                                                                                      35
                                                                                      64
                                                                                               649
                                                                       8
                                          28                         47 2
                                                                        5                                                                                        3
                                           315                                                                                                                 11 0




                                                                                                                                                                                             26
                                                                                                                                                                                              86
                                             154                                                                                                                46              3
                          21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                Wilson Street
                          437




                                                                                                                                                                              73 7




                                                                                                                                               14
                                                                                                                                                                  1
                            100




                                                                                                                                                 9
                                                                                                             Oak Street                                                        12




                                                                                                                                            3
                                                                                                                                            44
                                                                            Shotwell Park
                                                84




                                                                                                                               21 8




                                                                                                                                                                          5
                                                 398 4




                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                   10




                                  8                                                                                             44                                                      Sedgwick Street
                                19 5




                                                                                                                                                                  20
Matchline B




                                                                                                                                  55                45
                                 42 7




                                                                                                              25
                                                                                                                                                    706 7




                                                                                                              14 4
                                   14




                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                 5
                                           Teall Avenue




                                                                                                                                 45
                                                                                                     62 1                                                        Daybreak               N. Townsend Street




                                                                                                                                  91




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Matchline A
                                                                                                                                    62
                                                                        Lodi Street                   49              25                                         Driveway
                                                                                                       11                8                                                                                     39 8
                                                                                39                                    68 5                                                                                      58
                                                                             187                                         3
                                                 Catherine Street                                                88                                                                                               35




                                                                                                                                                                                                  35
                                                                                                                                                                                                  20 6
                                                                             28                                425               Oak Street                   N. State Street




                                                                                                                                                                                                     8
                                                                                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                    23                                        62
                                                                     499                    11                                                                                       291




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  93
                                                                                            621




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   347 2
                                                                       59                                                                                                             474




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     22
                                                                                                            Lodi Street
                                                     113




                                                                                                                                                                                                       29
                                                      6




                                                                                               11                                                                                      81
                                                        35




                                                                                                                                                                                                          3




                                                                                                                                                                99
                                                                                                                                                                                                       51 8




                                                                                                                                                                151
                    N. McBride Street                                                                                         Parking Lot                                                                 6




                                                                                                                                                                   21
                                                                       57
                                                                        178




                                        36 0
                                                                          113




                                                                                                                                                    1                                                         N. Townsend Street




                                                                                                                                                                                       10 4
                                         60                27
                                                                                                                                                        498




                                                                                                                                                                                        69
                                                                                                                                                                                         3
                                                           580 5




                                                                                                                                                                                          32
                                           11                                                                                                            28               52
                        58




                                                              3                                                                                                              8
                         65




                                                                                                                                                                          40 3
                                                                                                                                        4
                           46




                                                                                                                                    6                                        1
                                                                                                                                9

                                                                    Catherine Street
                                                 6




                                                                                                                                                              17
                                                                                                                                                                                     N. State Street
                                           54
      Matchline A




                                                                                                                                                               0
                                            16




                                                                                                                                                         27
                               46                                                                                                            0

                                                                                                                                                           4
                               578                                                                                                          452
                                  17                                                                                                         101
                                                                                                       James Street
                                       N. McBride Street                                                                                           Oswego Boulevard

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N
         James Street Diet
          2009 Existing Traffic Volumes
                                                                                                                                                                                                              W O  E
          Evening Peak Hour                                                                                   Figure 2                                                                                        GTS Consulting
                                                      Grant Boulevard
                                                                                                                                   Walgreens




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Matchline B
                                                                                         23(22)




                                                                                      12(39)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     18(
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0(1
                                                                                                                                                                      James Street




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        )
                                                                                                                                       1(3)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2(2
                        Teall Avenue




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 )
                                                                                                                                                                      DeWitt Street                                                                     7)
                                                                                                       11(19)                                                                                                                                     6(1




                                                                                                                                                                                                               3(1
                                                )
                                          8(9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                2)
                                                                                                                                                                                                  )
                                                                                                                                                                                            (12
                                                                                                                                                                                       18                                                                Wilson Street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               15)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            18(
                                                       6(2
                            24(




                                                                                               Shotwell Park                        Oak Street




                                                                                                                                                                                                         31
                                                          )
                               24)




                                                                                                                                                                            7(3




                                                                                                                                                                                                          (18
                                                                                                                                                                             )
                                                                                                                                                            )




                                                                                                                                                                                                               )
                                                                                                                                                      (11                                                                       Sedgwick Street
                                           13)                                                                                                   16
Matchline B




                                        13(                                                                                                                                                 3)
                                                                                                                                                                                        13(




                                                                                                                                                                 12
                                                                                                                                      20(




                                                                                                                                                                      (15
                                                                                                                                         12)
                                                    Teall Avenue




                                                                                                                                                                       )
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Daybreak                  N. Townsend Street




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Matchline A
                                                                                                                          18
                                                                                        Lodi Street                                                                                                   Driveway



                                                                                                                           (27
                                                                                                                  17)                                19)
                                                                                                               11(                                26(


                                                                                                                               )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12
                                                       Catherine Street
                                                                                                                                                                Oak Street                   N. State Street




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10(
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       17(
                                                                                  )




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          13)
                                                                            (16                                            12)
                                                                                                        14(




                                                                       20                                               10(                                                                                                1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6(1
                                                                                                           19)




                                                                                                                                   Lodi Street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     21)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  16(
                                                              18(




                                                                                          16




                    N. McBride Street                                                                                                                 Parking Lot
                                                                                               (3 2




                                                                                                                                                                                                      14(
                                                                 19)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8(3
                                                                                                 )




                                                                                                                                                                                                         12)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8)
                                                )
                                          (30                                                                                                                                      )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N. Townsend Street
                                     20                                   17)                                                                                                2(6
                                                                       23(
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        38)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     23(
                                                    3(8




                                                                                                                                                                                        19
                          1(8




                                                      )




                                                                                                                                                                12(

                                                                             Catherine Street




                                                                                                                                                                                            (11
                            )




                                                                                                                                                                 3)




                                                                                                                                                                                              )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N. State Street
      Matchline A




                                        22)
                                     18(                                                                                                                                        29)
                                                                                                                                                                             16(
                                                                                                                             James Street
                                      N. McBride Street                                                                                                                           Oswego Boulevard

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N
         James Street Diet
          2009 Existing Pedestrian Volumes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W    E    O
          Morning (Evening) Peak Hour                                                                                                Figure 3                                                                                                      GTS Consulting
                                                  Grant Boulevard
                                                                                                                Walgreens




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Matchline B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2(3




                                                                                  1(5)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ( )




                                                                                   (1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                                            (4)
                                                                                                                            (1)
                                                                                                                                             James Street
                                                                                                                                                                                                        1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                        Teall Avenue                                                                                                                                                                                    )
                                                                                                  3(1)                                       DeWitt Street                                                        1(5
                                                                        3   (1)
                                                 )
                                              1(1




                                                                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                                              )
                                                                                                                                                                        2(2




                                                                                                                                                                                                         (1)
                                                                                                                                                                                            )                                     Wilson Street
                                                                                                                                                                                    2(2




                                                                                                                                                   (2)
                                                                                  Shotwell Park                  Oak Street

                                                                                                                                         )
                                  1                                                                                                  1(3                                                            Sedgwick Street
Matchline B




                                  (1)                                                                                                  (1)                      )
                                                                                                                                                            1(3




                                                                                                                     1
                                          Teall Avenue
                                                                                                                                                                         Daybreak                   N. Townsend Street




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Matchline A
                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                            )
                                                                              Lodi Street                1(2                    )
                                                                                                                                                                         Driveway
                                                                                                                          2(2                                                                                                            )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1(7
                                                   Catherine Street
                                                                                                                   1(1                 Oak Street                   N. State Street
                                                                                                                      )
                                                                            )
                                                                         2(7                                                                                                                    (1) )
                                                                                                  5
                                                                                                                Lodi Street                                                                      3(2
                                                        2(2




                                                                                                  (1)                                                                                                                       )
                                                           )




                    N. McBride Street                                                                                               Parking Lot                                                                     2(2
                                                                                  2




                                              )                   )                                                                                                                                                             N. Townsend Street
                                        4(4                    1(1 )                                                                                            )




                                                                                                                                                                                                        (3)
                                                                  (4                                                                                         3(5
                                                                                                                                                                                        )
                                                                                                                                       (1)                                        1(1
                                                                       Catherine Street
                                                                                                                                                                                                N. State Street
      Matchline A




                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                  )
                               1(5                                                                                                               1(4
                                                                                                                                                       )
                                                                                                           James Street
                                      N. McBride Street                                                                                                    Oswego Boulevard

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N
         James Street Diet
          2009 Existing Bicyclist Volumes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W  O E
          Morning (Evening) Peak Hour                                                                             Figure 4                                                                                                      GTS Consulting
                                                Grant Boulevard
                                                                                                           Walgreens




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Matchline B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 789




                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                                   10
                                                                       238




                                                                                                      6
                                                                                                                       258                                                                                        16




                                                                        70
                                                                        43
                                                                                                                       412
                                                                                                                       10
                                                                                                                                   James Street                                              9
                                                                                               60                                                                                          76




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  29
                                                                                                                                                                                            42




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   22
                        Teall Avenue                                                          102                                                                                                      6
                                                                                                                                   DeWitt Street                                                     59 2




                                                                                       44
                                                                                       73
                                                                                              650                                                                                                      1
                                                                        1
                                          12                          50 0
                                                                         3                                                                                    0
                                           442                                                                                                              12 8




                                                                                                                                                                                              34 9
                                                                                                                                                                                               11
                                             82                                                                                                              76                  4                               Wilson Street
                          446




                                                                                                                                                                               57 6




                                                                                                                                            17
                                                                                                                                                               0
                           7
                            193




                                                                                                                                              9
                                                                                                            Oak Street                                                          11




                                                                                                                                           6
                                                                                                                                           53
                                                                           Shotwell Park
                                                92




                                                                                                                              31 0




                                                                                                                                                                           2
                                                 354 0




                                                                                                                                                                       1
                                                   17




                                  2                                                                                            75                                                        Sedgwick Street
                                10 2




                                                                                                                                                                   7
Matchline B




                                                                                                                                 47              30
                                 43 1




                                                                                                             28
                                    9                                                                                                            509 1




                                                                                                              88
                                                                                                                41
                                                                                                                                                    1
                                           Teall Avenue




                                                                                                                                98 3
                                                                                                    64 4                                                       Daybreak                  N. Townsend Street




                                                                                                                                 17 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Matchline A
                                                                                                                                   11
                                                                         Lodi Street                 81              78                                        Driveway
                                                                                                      23                4                                                                                       71 3
                                                                                 38                                  42 7                                                                                        63
                                                                              252                                       6
                                                  Catherine Street                                              53                                                                                                 74




                                                                                                                                                                                                 26
                                                                                                                                                                                                 21 0
                                                                              18                              268               Oak Street                 N. State Street




                                                                                                                                                                                                    4
                                                                                                                                                                                                    3
                                                                     22                                      34
                                                                      718                  30                                                                                         169




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   59
                                                                        126                478




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    333 9
                                                                                                                                                                                       503




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      16
                                                                                                           Lodi Street
                                                     127




                                                                                                                                                                                                        29
                                                      2




                                                                                              53                                                                                        160




                                                                                                                                                               122
                                                        36




                                                                                                                                                                                                           7
                                                                                                                                                                                                        51 1




                                                                                                                                                                419
                    N. McBride Street                                                                                        Parking Lot                                                                   4




                                                                                                                                                                   22
                                                                        57
                                                                         79




                                        35 9
                                                                           47




                                                                                                                                                 6                                                             N. Townsend Street




                                                                                                                                                                                        40 0
                                         74                 14
                                                                                                                                                     465




                                                                                                                                                                                         23
                                                            502 3




                                                                                                                                                                                           35
                                           17                                                                                                         89                   78
                        16




                                                               4                                                                                                              5
                         20




                                                                                                                                                                           42 5
                                                                                                                                       0
                           13




                                                                                                                                   0                                          5
                                                                                                                               0

                                                                     Catherine Street
                                           12




                                                                                                                                                               7
                                                                                                                                                                                      N. State Street
                                            42
      Matchline A




                                                                                                                                                           1
                                              16




                                                                                                                                                      16
                               59                                                                                                      12

                                                                                                                                                        6
                               531                                                                                                     551
                                  12                                                                                                    206
                                                                                                      James Street
                                       N. McBride Street                                                                                        Oswego Boulevard

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N
         James Street Diet
          2030 Projected Traffic Volumes
                                                                                                                                                                                                               W O  E
          Morning Peak Hour                                                                                  Figure 5                                                                                          GTS Consulting
                                                Grant Boulevard
                                                                                                            Walgreens




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Matchline B
                                                                                                       12
                                                                                                                        10                                                                                     595




                                                                                                     32
                                                                                                    38
                                                                      329
                                                                                                                        386                                                                                     28




                                                                       85
                                                                       72
                                                                                                                        438
                                                                                                                        14
                                                                                                                                   James Street                                              5
                                                                                                91                                                                                         58




                                                                                                                                                                                                                22
                                                                                                                                                                                            29




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 19
                        Teall Avenue                                                           109                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                   DeWitt Street                                                   90 8




                                                                                      42
                                                                                      77
                                                                                               780
                                                                       4
                                          34                         57 2
                                                                        6                                                                                       6
                                           378                                                                                                                13 1




                                                                                                                                                                                            30 3
                                                                                                                                                                                             10
                                             185                                                                                                               55              0
                          25




                                                                                                                                                                                                               Wilson Street
                          524




                                                                                                                                                                             88 2




                                                                                                                                              17
                                                                                                                                                                 1
                            120




                                                                                                                                                9
                                                                                                             Oak Street                                                       15




                                                                                                                                           4
                                                                                                                                           54
                                                                            Shotwell Park
                                                10




                                                                                                                               25 8




                                                                                                                                                                         6
                                                 478 5
                                                  1




                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                   12




                                  8                                                                                             53                                                     Sedgwick Street
                                23 0




                                                                                                                                                                 24
Matchline B




                                                                                                                                  66               54
                                 51 6




                                                                                                              30
                                                                                                                                                   847 8




                                                                                                              16 4
                                   17




                                                                                                                 9
                                                                                                                 6
                                           Teall Avenue




                                                                                                                                 53 9
                                                                                                     74 9                                                       Daybreak               N. Townsend Street




                                                                                                                                  10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Matchline A
                                                                                                                                    74
                                                                        Lodi Street                   58               30                                       Driveway
                                                                                                       13                 6                                                                                   47 5
                                                                                47                                     82 2                                                                                    70
                                                                             224                                          4
                                                 Catherine Street                                                106                                                                                             42




                                                                                                                                                                                                 42
                                                                                                                                                                                                 29 3
                                                                             34                                510               Oak Street                  N. State Street




                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                    4
                                                                    28                                        74
                                                                     598                    13                                                                                      349




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 11
                                                                                            745




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  486 6
                                                                       71                                                                                                            568




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    26
                                                                                                            Lodi Street
                                                     136




                                                                                                                                                                                                      35
                                                      7




                                                                                               13                                                                                     97




                                                                                                                                                               119
                                                        42




                                                                                                                                                                                                         6
                                                                                                                                                                                                      61 2




                                                                                                                                                                211
                    N. McBride Street                                                                                         Parking Lot                                                                8




                                                                                                                                                                   25
                                                                       68
                                                                        214




                                        43 0
                                                                          136




                                                                                                                                                   1                                                         N. Townsend Street




                                                                                                                                                                                      12 2
                                         72                33
                                                                                                                                                       596




                                                                                                                                                                                       97
                                                                                                                                                                                        4
                                                           696 3




                                                                                                                                                                                         38
                                           13                                                                                                           34               62
                        70




                                                              4                                                                                                             0
                         78




                                                                                                                                                                         49 6
                                                                                                                                       5
                           55




                                                                                                                               7
                                                                                                                               11
                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                    Catherine Street
                                                 7




                                                                                                                                                             20
                                                                                                                                                                                    N. State Street
                                           65
      Matchline A




                                                                                                                                                              0
                                            19




                                                                                                                                                        32
                               55                                                                                                           0

                                                                                                                                                          9
                               695                                                                                                         543
                                  20                                                                                                        121
                                                                                                       James Street
                                       N. McBride Street                                                                                          Oswego Boulevard

                                                                                                                                                                                                                N
         James Street Diet
          2030 Projected Traffic Volumes
                                                                                                                                                                                                             W O  E
          Evening Peak Hour                                                                                   Figure 6                                                                                       GTS Consulting
                                                         Grant Boulevard
                                                                                                                                       Walgreens




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Matchline B
                                                                                             28(26)




                                                                                          14(47)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          22(
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0(1
                                                                                                                                                                          James Street




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               )
                                                                                                                                           1(4)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2(2
                        Teall Avenue




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     )
                                                                                                                                                                          DeWitt Street                                                                      0)
                                                                                                           13(23)                                                                                                                                      7(2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4(1
                                                     )
                                               (11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4)
                                          10                                                                                                                                                          )
                                                                                                                                                                                                (14
                                                                                                                                                                                           22                                                                 Wilson Street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   18)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                22(
                                                          7(2
                            29(




                                                                                                   Shotwell Park                        Oak Street




                                                                                                                                                                                                             37
                                                              )
                               29)




                                                                                                                                                                                8(4




                                                                                                                                                                                                              (22
                                                                                                                                                                                 )
                                                                                                                                                                )




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   )
                                                                                                                                                          (13                                                                       Sedgwick Street
                                           16)                                                                                                       19
Matchline B




                                        16(                                                                                                                                                     4)
                                                                                                                                                                                            16(




                                                                                                                                                                     14
                                                                                                                                          24(




                                                                                                                                                                          (18
                                                                                                                                             14)
                                                    Teall Avenue




                                                                                                                                                                           )
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Daybreak                  N. Townsend Street




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Matchline A
                                                                                                                              22
                                                                                            Lodi Street                                                                                                   Driveway



                                                                                                                               (32
                                                                                                                      20)                                23)
                                                                                                                   13(                                31(


                                                                                                                                   )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       14
                                                          Catherine Street
                                                                                                                                                                    Oak Street                   N. State Street




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12(
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              20(
                                                                                      )




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 16)
                                                                                (19                                            14)
                                                                                                            17(




                                                                           24                                               12(                                                                                                3)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7(1
                                                                                                               23)




                                                                                                                                       Lodi Street
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          25)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       19(
                                                                  22(




                                                                                              19




                    N. McBride Street                                                                                                                     Parking Lot
                                                                                                   (3 8




                                                                                                                                                                                                          17(
                                                                     23)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    10
                                                                                                     )




                                                                                                                                                                                                             14)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (4 6
                                                )
                                          (36                                                                                                                                                                                                           N. Townsend Street




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          )
                                     24                                                                                                                                                )
                                                                              20)                                                                                                2(7
                                                                           28(
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            46)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         28(
                                                     4(1




                                                                                                                                                                                            23
                          1(1




                                                         0)




                                                                                                                                                                    14(

                                                                                 Catherine Street




                                                                                                                                                                                                (13
                            0)




                                                                                                                                                                     4)




                                                                                                                                                                                                  )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N. State Street
      Matchline A




                                        26)
                                     22(                                                                                                                                            35)
                                                                                                                                                                                 19(
                                                                                                                                 James Street
                                      N. McBride Street                                                                                                                               Oswego Boulevard

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N
         James Street Diet
          2030 Projected Pedestrian Volumes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W    E    O
          Morning (Evening) Peak Hour                                                                                                    Figure 7                                                                                                       GTS Consulting
                                                  Grant Boulevard
                                                                                                                Walgreens




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Matchline B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2(4




                                                                                  1(6)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ( )




                                                                                   (1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2
                                                                                                                            (5)
                                                                                                                            (1)
                                                                                                                                             James Street
                                                                                                                                                                                                        1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                        Teall Avenue                                                                                                                                                                                    )
                                                                                                  4(1)                                       DeWitt Street                                                        1(6
                                                                        4   (1)
                                                 )
                                              1(1




                                                                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                                              )
                                                                                                                                                                        2(2




                                                                                                                                                                                                         (1)
                                                                                                                                                                                            )                                     Wilson Street
                                                                                                                                                                                    2(2




                                                                                                                                                   (2)
                                                                                  Shotwell Park                  Oak Street

                                                                                                                                         )
                                  1                                                                                                  1(4                                                            Sedgwick Street
Matchline B




                                  (1)                                                                                                  (1)                      )
                                                                                                                                                            1(4




                                                                                                                     1
                                          Teall Avenue
                                                                                                                                                                         Daybreak                   N. Townsend Street




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Matchline A
                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                            )
                                                                              Lodi Street                1(2                    )
                                                                                                                                                                         Driveway
                                                                                                                          2(2                                                                                                            )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1(8
                                                   Catherine Street
                                                                                                                   1(1                 Oak Street                   N. State Street
                                                                                                                      )
                                                                            )
                                                                         2(8                                                                                                                    (1) )
                                                                                                  5
                                                                                                                Lodi Street                                                                      4(2
                                                        2(2




                                                                                                  (1)                                                                                                                       )
                                                           )




                    N. McBride Street                                                                                               Parking Lot                                                                     2(2
                                                                                  2




                                              )                   )                                                                                                                                                             N. Townsend Street
                                        5(5                    1(1 )                                                                                            )




                                                                                                                                                                                                        (4)
                                                                  (5                                                                                         4(6
                                                                                                                                                                                        )
                                                                                                                                       (1)                                        1(1
                                                                       Catherine Street
                                                                                                                                                                                                N. State Street
      Matchline A




                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                  )
                               1(6                                                                                                               1(5
                                                                                                                                                       )
                                                                                                           James Street
                                      N. McBride Street                                                                                                    Oswego Boulevard

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N
         James Street Diet
          2030 Projected Bicyclist Volumes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W  O E
          Morning (Evening) Peak Hour                                                                             Figure 8                                                                                                      GTS Consulting
                                   Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                        126 N. Salina St.
                                                                       Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                        T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                       www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                             File Name       : 5_20_09_James_Oswego_Both
                                                                                             Site Code       : 00000004
                                                                                             Start Date      : 5/20/2009
                                                                                             Page No         :1


                                                         Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles and B
                       Driveway (Parking Lot)                 James St                     Oswego Blvd                        James St
                       Southbound Approach             Westbound Approach              Northbound Approach              Eastbound Approach
Start Time         Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total   Int. Total
    Factor          1.0    1.0  1.0   1.0           1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0           1.0   1.0  1.0  1.0             1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0
 07:00 AM             0      0    0     0      0      2    46     7     0     55      0     0    7    0        7     18    65     1     0     84       146
 07:15 AM             0      0    0     0      0      0    58     6     0     64      0     0   12    0       12     34 105       0     2  141         217
 07:30 AM             0      0    0     0      0      1    78     9     0     88      0     0   32    0       32     41 130       1     0  172         292
 07:45 AM             0      0    0     0      0      0    88    14     0  102        0     0   40    0       40     41 176       2     1  220         362
     Total            0      0    0     0      0      3 270      36     0  309        0     0   91    0       91 134 476          4     3  617        1017

 08:00 AM               0     0    0     0      0     0    70    11      0     81     0     1    37     0      38    39   145     1      1    186      305
 08:15 AM               0     0    0     0      0     2    69    14      0     85     3     0    38     0      41    45   148     3      0    196      322
 08:30 AM               0     0    0     0      0     3    83    15      0    101     3     0    23     1      27    47   114     4      1    166      294
 08:45 AM               0     0    0     0      0     1    80    10      0     91     4     2    43     3      52    39   146     3      0    188      331
     Total              0     0    0     0      0     6   302    50      0    358    10     3   141     4     158   170   553    11      2    736     1252



 04:00 PM               4     2    1     2      9     0   112    15      0    127     5     0    60     2      67    14    99      0     1    114      317
 04:15 PM               0     0    1     0      1     0    89     3      0     92     6     0    67     0      73    18    98      0     0    116      282
 04:30 PM               2     0    0     2      4     0   128     7      0    135     6     0    61     2      69    26   113      0     0    139      347
 04:45 PM               2     1    0     1      4     0    99     5      0    104     6     0    66     1      73    26   114      0     0    140      321
     Total              8     3    2     5     18     0   428    30      0    458    23     0   254     5     282    84   424      0     1    509     1267

 05:00 PM               4     2    3     2     11     0   114     2      0    116     5     0    78     0      83    27   125      0     0    152      362
 05:15 PM               1     3    1     1      6     1   107     2      0    110     0     0    69     0      69    22   137      0     1    160      345
 05:30 PM               0     1    0     0      1     0    73     5      0     78     3     0    50     0      53    11    66      0     1     78      210
 05:45 PM               0     0    0     0      0     0    71     6      0     77     1     0    34     0      35    27    92      0     1    120      232
     Total              5     6    4     3     18     1   365    15      0    381     9     0   231     0     240    87   420      0     3    510     1149

Grand Total             13     9    6    8     36    10   1365   131     0   1506    42     3 717       9     771    475 1873    15      9   2372     4685
 Apprch % 36.1                25 16.7 22.2          0.7   90.6   8.7     0          5.4   0.4   93    1.2             20   79   0.6    0.4
     Total %           0.3   0.2  0.1  0.2   0.8    0.2   29.1   2.8     0   32.1   0.9   0.1 15.3    0.2    16.5   10.1   40   0.3    0.2   50.6
           Cars         13     9    6    8    36     10   1354   131     0   1495    42     3 708       9     762    472 1840    15      9   2336     4629
      % Cars 100             100 100 100     100    100   99.2   100     0   99.3   100   100 98.7    100    98.8   99.4 98.2   100    100   98.5     98.8
Heavy Vehicles and B     0     0    0    0     0      0     11     0     0     11     0     0    9      0       9      3   33     0      0     36       56
% Heavy Vehicles and B   0     0    0    0     0      0    0.8     0     0    0.7     0     0  1.3      0     1.2    0.6  1.8     0      0    1.5      1.2
                              Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                                              126 N. Salina St.
                                                                                             Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                                              T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                                             www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                                                                 File Name       : 5_20_09_James_Oswego_Both
                                                                                                                                 Site Code       : 00000004
                                                                                                                                 Start Date      : 5/20/2009
                                                                                                                                 Page No         :2

                 Driveway (Parking Lot)                    James St                 Oswego Blvd                       James St
                 Southbound Approach                 Westbound Approach         Northbound Approach              Eastbound Approach
 Start Time Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total                                                       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
  07:45 AM      0       0      0     0        0     0   88    14    0   102    0     0   40    0       40     41 176      2    1    220                                                               362
  08:00 AM      0       0      0     0        0     0   70    11    0    81    0     1   37    0       38     39 145      1    1    186                                                             305
  08:15 AM      0       0      0     0        0     2   69    14    0    85    3     0   38    0       41     45 148      3    0    196                                                             322
  08:30 AM      0       0      0     0        0     3   83    15    0   101    3     0   23    1       27     47 114      4    1    166                                                             294
 Total Volume   0       0      0     0        0     5 310     54    0   369    6     1 138     1    146 172 583          10    3    768                                                            1283
% App. Total      0      0      0          0                             1.4     84   14.6       0                4.1        0.7   94.5    0.7            22.4       75.9     1.3    0.4
       PHF     .000   .000   .000       .000                     .000   .417   .881   .900    .000      .904     .500       .250   .863   .250   .890     .915       .828    .625   .750   .873      .886

                                                                                               Driveway (Parking Lot)
                                                                                               Out       In      Total
                                                                                                 16         0       16


                                                                                                 0     0              0      0
                                                                                             Right Thru        Left       RTOR




                                                                                             Peak Hour Data
                               1216


                                                 10




                                                                                                                                                        Right Thru
                               Total




                                               Left




                                                                                                                                                                     Out
                                                                                                                                                                      589
                                                                                                                                                            5




                                                                                                         North
                                                           583
                                               RTOR Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                     James St
                             James St




                                                                                                                                                               310
                                  768
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                                        In




                                                                                             Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                                                                                                                                                         369
                                                      172




                                                                                                                                                        Left RTOR
                                                                                                                                                          54




                                                                                             Cars
                                448




                                                                                             Heavy Vehicles and B
                               Out




                                                                                                                                                                     Total
                                                  3




                                                                                                                                                                      958
                                                                                                                                                                0




                                                                                              Left Thru Right RTOR
                                                                                               138     1    6    1


                                                                                                226        146      372
                                                                                               Out        In      Total
                                                                                                      Oswego Blvd
                               Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                                               126 N. Salina St.
                                                                                              Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                                               T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                                              www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                                                                  File Name       : 5_20_09_James_Oswego_Both
                                                                                                                                  Site Code       : 00000004
                                                                                                                                  Start Date      : 5/20/2009
                                                                                                                                  Page No         :3
                 Driveway (Parking Lot)                        James St                       Oswego Blvd                          James St
                 Southbound Approach                     Westbound Approach               Northbound Approach                Eastbound Approach
               Rig Thr                                     Thr                               Thr                               Thr
 Start Time                 Left    RTOR  App. Total Right       Left RTOR App. Total Right       Left RTOR App. Total Right         Left RTOR App. Total                                          Int. Total
                ht      u                                    u                                 u                                 u
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
  04:30 PM       2      0      0      2          4      0 128      7     0    135        6     0   61     2       69     26 113        0     0    139                                                 347
  04:45 PM       2      1      0      1          4      0   99     5     0    104        6     0   66     1       73     26 114        0     0    140                                                 321
  05:00 PM       4      2      3      2       11        0 114      2     0    116        5     0   78     0       83     27 125        0     0    152                                                  362
  05:15 PM       1       3     1      1          6      1 107      2     0    110        0     0   69     0       69     22 137        0     1    160                                                345
 Total Volume    9      6      4      6       25        1 448     16     0    465       17     0 274      3    294 101 489             0     1    591                                               1375
 % App. Total     36     24     16         24                             0.2   96.3    3.4       0                5.8          0   93.2      1            17.1       82.7       0    0.2
        PHF     .563   .500   .333       .750                     .568   .250   .875   .571    .000      .861     .708       .000   .878   .375   .886     .935       .892    .000   .250   .923      .950

                                                                                                Driveway (Parking Lot)
                                                                                                Out       In      Total
                                                                                                    1       25       26


                                                                                                  9     6              4      6
                                                                                              Right Thru        Left       RTOR




                                                                                              Peak Hour Data
                                1322


                                                0




                                                                                                                                                         Right Thru
                                Total




                                                        Left




                                                                                                                                                                      Out
                                                                                                                                                                       510
                                                                                                                                                             1




                                                                                                          North
                                                            489
                                                RTOR Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                      James St
                              James St




                                                                                                                                                                448
                                   591
                                  In




                                                                                                                                                                         In
                                                                                                                                                                          465




                                                                                              Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                       101




                                                                                                                                                         Left RTOR
                                                                                                                                                           16




                                                                                              Cars
                                 731




                                                                                              Heavy Vehicles and B
                                Out




                                                                                                                                                                      Total
                                                   1




                                                                                                                                                                       975
                                                                                                                                                                 0




                                                                                               Left Thru Right RTOR
                                                                                                274     0   17    3


                                                                                                 123        294      417
                                                                                                Out        In      Total
                                                                                                       Oswego Blvd
                             Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                   126 N. Salina St.
                                                                  Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                   T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                  www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                         File Name       : 5_20_09_James_Oswego_Both
                                                                                         Site Code       : 00000004
                                                                                         Start Date      : 5/20/2009
                                                                                         Page No         :1


                                                          Groups Printed- Bicycles and Pedestr
                   Driveway (Parking Lot)                 James St                     Oswego Blvd                        James St
                   Southbound Approach             Westbound Approach              Northbound Approach              Eastbound Approach
Start Time     Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total   Int. Total
    Factor      1.0    1.0  1.0   1.0           1.0   1.0    1.0  1.0           1.0   1.0  1.0  1.0             1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0
 07:00 AM         0      0    0     0      0      0     0      0    1      1      0     0    0    3        3      0     1     0     0      1           5
 07:15 AM         0      0    0     0      0      0     0      0    5      5      0     0    0    5        5      0     1     0     1      2          12
 07:30 AM         0      0    0     0      0      0     0      0    3      3      0     0    0    7        7      0     0     0     0      0          10
 07:45 AM         0      0    0     2      2      0     1      0    7      8      0     0    0    3        3      0     1     0     2      3          16
     Total        0      0    0     2      2      0     1      0   16     17      0     0    0   18       18      0     3     0     3      6          43

 08:00 AM         0     0     0     0       0     0     0     0     1       1     0     0     0     2       2     0     0      0    0       0          3
 08:15 AM         0     0     0     0       0     0     2     0     6       8     0     1     0     5       6     0     0      0    3       3         17
 08:30 AM         0     0     0     0       0     0     0     0     5       5     0     0     0     5       5     0     0      0    4       4         14
 08:45 AM         0     0     0     0       0     0     0     0     4       4     0     0     0     5       5     0     0      0    3       3         12
     Total        0     0     0     0       0     0     2     0    16      18     0     1     0    17      18     0     0      0   10      10         46

BREAK

 04:00 PM         0     0     0     0       0     0     3     0     4       7     0     0     0    10      10     0     0      0     0      0         17
 04:15 PM         0     0     0     0       0     0     0     0     3       3     0     0     0     5       5     0     0      0     0      0          8
 04:30 PM         0     0     0     0       0     0     2     0     8      10     0     0     0     5       5     0     1      0     1      2         17
 04:45 PM         0     1     0     0       1     0     1     0     2       3     0     0     0    10      10     0     1      0     0      1         15
     Total        0     1     0     0       1     0     6     0    17      23     0     0     0    30      30     0     2      0     1      3         57

 05:00 PM         0     0     0     0       0     0     1     0     1       2     0     0     0     7       7     0     1      0     0      1         10
 05:15 PM         0     0     0     0       0     0     1     0     0       1     0     0     0     4       4     0     1      0     1      2          7
 05:30 PM         0     0     0     0       0     0     1     0     3       4     0     1     0     6       7     0     2      0     0      2         13
 05:45 PM         0     0     0     0       0     0     2     0     1       3     0     0     0     6       6     0     0      0     0      0          9
     Total        0     0     0     0       0     0     5     0     5      10     0     1     0    23      24     0     4      0     1      5         39

 Grand Total      0    1      0    2        3     0   14      0   54       68     0     2     0  88        90     0    9       0   15      24       185
 Apprch %         0 33.3      0 66.7              0 20.6      0 79.4              0   2.2     0 97.8              0 37.5       0 62.5
  Total %         0  0.5      0  1.1      1.6     0  7.6      0 29.2     36.8     0   1.1     0 47.6     48.6     0  4.9       0  8.1      13
                                 Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                       126 N. Salina St.
                                                                      Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                       T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                      www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                                   File Name      : 5_20_09_James_State_Both
                                                                                                   Site Code      : 00000222
                                                                                                   Start Date     : 5/20/2009
                                                                                                   Page No        :1


                                                             Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                              State St                        James St                        State St                        James St
                       Southbound Approach             Westbound Approach              Northbound Approach              Eastbound Approach
Start Time         Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total    Int. Total
    Factor          1.0   1.0   1.0    1.0          1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0           1.0   1.0   1.0    1.0          1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0
 07:00 AM             2    37     6      1    46     28    56    11     7    102      5    21     2      3    31      5    36     7     5     53        232
 07:15 AM             4    61    15      2    82     25    69    14     8    116      4    17     4      4    29      7    73    17     0     97        324
 07:30 AM             2    64    21      3    90     35    78    26     3    142      8    24     4      4    40      6 107      11     1  125          397
 07:45 AM             6    87    33      1 127       30    85    33     2    150      9    40     6      2    57      8 123       9     0  140          474
     Total           14 249      75      7 345 118 288           84    20    510     26 102      16    13  157       26 339      44     6  415         1427

 08:00 AM            8    82     21     1    112    35     67    23     2     127    10     35      7     5     57      3     99   14     3    119      415
 08:15 AM            3    71     33     2    109    33     96    37     2     168    13     44      9    11     77      8     91   10     6    115      469
 08:30 AM            1    59     25     2     87    23     70    20     2     115    11     45      7     5     68      7     86   17     5    115      385
 08:45 AM            4    40     35     5     84    27     85    24     7     143    10     46      3    11     70      2    114    8     1    125      422
     Total          16   252    114    10    392   118    318   104    13     553    44    170     26    32    272     20    390   49    15    474     1691



 04:00 PM            7    43     19     0     69    58     92    18     6     174    20    168      7     6    201      4     86    5     3     98      542
 04:15 PM            7    53     15     0     75    40     72    16     4     132    23    142      6     2    173      4     92   10     1    107      487
 04:30 PM            7    33     25     2     67    58     98    14     1     171    34    196      6     6    242      6    113   11     2    132      612
 04:45 PM            6    41     20     2     69    41     83    14     2     140    26    202      5     1    234      2     85   12     0     99      542
     Total          27   170     79     4    280   197    345    62    13     617   103    708     24    15    850     16    376   38     6    436     2183

 05:00 PM            5    42     34     0     81    62     95    10     8     175    24    174     10     4    212      3    105   12     1    121      589
 05:15 PM            3    35     20     0     58    50     88    13     4     155    19    122     11     2    154      2    103   17     0    122      489
 05:30 PM            6    35     29     0     70    40     58     4     2     104    11    101      4     2    118      3     44    9     1     57      349
 05:45 PM            5    32     18     3     58    50     50    11     3     114    17     76      2     0     95      0     78    6     1     85      352
     Total          19   144    101     3    267   202    291    38    17     548    71    473     27     8    579      8    330   44     3    385     1779

Grand Total         76 815 369         24   1284    635   1242 288    63    2228     244   1453     93    68   1858     70   1435 175     30   1710    7080
 Apprch %          5.9 63.5 28.7      1.9          28.5   55.7 12.9  2.8            13.1   78.2      5   3.7           4.1   83.9 10.2   1.8
  Total %          1.1 11.5  5.2      0.3   18.1      9   17.5  4.1  0.9    31.5     3.4   20.5    1.3     1   26.2      1   20.3  2.5   0.4   24.2
     Cars           76 803 363         24   1266    604   1231 282    61    2178     241   1434     91    68   1834     69   1404 173     30   1676    6954
   % Cars          100 98.5 98.4      100   98.6   95.1   99.1 97.9 96.8    97.8    98.8   98.7   97.8   100   98.7   98.6   97.8 98.9   100     98    98.2
Heavy Vehicles       0   12    6        0     18     31     11    6    2      50       3     19      2     0     24      1     31    2     0     34     126
% Heavy Vehicles     0  1.5  1.6        0    1.4    4.9    0.9  2.1  3.2     2.2     1.2    1.3    2.2     0    1.3    1.4    2.2  1.1     0      2     1.8
                              Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                                              126 N. Salina St.
                                                                                             Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                                              T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                                             www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                                                                 File Name       : 5_20_09_James_State_Both
                                                                                                                                 Site Code       : 00000222
                                                                                                                                 Start Date      : 5/20/2009
                                                                                                                                 Page No         :2

                           State St                        James St                    State St                        James St
                 Southbound Approach                 Westbound Approach         Northbound Approach              Eastbound Approach
 Start Time Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total                                                    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
  07:30 AM      2      64     21     3       90    35   78    26    3   142    8    24     4     4     40      6 107      11     1  125                                                           397
  07:45 AM      6      87     33     1      127    30   85    33    2   150    9    40     6     2     57      8 123       9     0  140                                                            474
  08:00 AM      8      82     21     1      112    35   67    23    2   127   10    35     7     5     57      3    99    14     3  119                                                          415
  08:15 AM      3      71     33     2      109    33   96    37    2   168   13    44     9    11     77      8    91    10     6  115                                                          469
 Total Volume  19 304 108            7      438 133 326 119         9   587   40 143      26    22  231       25 420      44    10  499                                                         1755
% App. Total    4.3   69.4   24.7        1.6                            22.7   55.5   20.3     1.5                17.3   61.9   11.3    9.5               5       84.2     8.8      2
       PHF     .594   .874   .818       .583                     .862   .950   .849   .804    .750     .874       .769   .813   .722   .500   .750     .781       .854    .786   .417   .891      .926

                                                                                                       State St
                                                                                               Out        In        Total
                                                                                                320        438        758


                                                                                                19  304        108    7
                                                                                             Right Thru       Left RTOR




                                                                                             Peak Hour Data
                                870


                                                 44




                                                                                                                                                     Right Thru
                               Total




                                               Left




                                                                                                                                                       133



                                                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                                                                                                                                   568



                                                                                                        North
                                                           420
                                               RTOR Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                  James St
                             James St




                                                                                                                                                            326
                                  499
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                                     In




                                                                                             Peak Hour Begins at 07:30 AM
                                                                                                                                                                      587
                                                       25




                                                                                                                                                     Left RTOR
                                                                                                                                                      119




                                                                                             Cars
                                371




                                                                                             Heavy Vehicles
                               Out




                                                                                                                                                                  Total
                                                 10




                                                                                                                                                                  1155
                                                                                                                                                             9




                                                                                              Left Thru Right RTOR
                                                                                                26  143    40   22


                                                                                                448        231        679
                                                                                               Out        In        Total
                                                                                                       State St
                               Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                                               126 N. Salina St.
                                                                                              Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                                               T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                                              www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                                                                  File Name        : 5_20_09_James_State_Both
                                                                                                                                  Site Code        : 00000222
                                                                                                                                  Start Date       : 5/20/2009
                                                                                                                                  Page No          :3
                           State St                            James St                          State St                           James St
                 Southbound Approach                     Westbound Approach               Northbound Approach                 Eastbound Approach
               Rig Thr                                     Thr                               Thr                                Thr
 Start Time                 Left    RTOR  App. Total Right       Left RTOR App. Total Right        Left RTOR App. Total Right         Left RTOR App. Total                                       Int. Total
                ht      u                                    u                                 u                                  u
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
  04:30 PM       7     33     25      2       67       58   98    14     1    171       34 196       6     6    242        6 113       11     2    132                                               612
  04:45 PM       6     41     20      2       69       41   83    14     2    140       26 202       5     1    234        2     85    12     0       99                                           542
  05:00 PM       5     42     34      0       81       62   95    10     8    175       24 174      10     4    212        3 105       12     1    121                                             589
  05:15 PM       3     35     20      0       58       50   88    13     4    155       19 122      11     2    154        2 103       17     0    122                                             489
 Total Volume   21 151        99      4     275 211 364           51    15    641 103 694           32    13    842       13 406       52     3    474                                            2232
 % App. Total    7.6   54.9     36        1.5                            32.9   56.8      8     2.3                12.2   82.4     3.8    1.5             2.7       85.7      11    0.6
        PHF     .750   .899   .728       .500                     .849   .851   .929   .911    .469     .916       .757   .859   .727    .542   .870     .542       .898    .765   .375   .898      .912

                                                                                                        State St
                                                                                                Out        In        Total
                                                                                                 957        275       1232


                                                                                                 21  151         99    4
                                                                                              Right Thru       Left RTOR




                                                                                              Peak Hour Data
                                 891


                                                  52




                                                                                                                                                       Right Thru
                                Total




                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                         211



                                                                                                                                                                    Out
                                                                                                                                                                     608



                                                                                                         North
                                                            406
                                                RTOR Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                    James St
                              James St




                                                                                                                                                              364
                                   474
                                  In




                                                                                                                                                                       In
                                                                                                                                                                        641




                                                                                              Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                        13




                                                                                                                                                       Left RTOR
                                                                                                                                                         51




                                                                                              Cars
                                 417




                                                                                              Heavy Vehicles
                                Out




                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                   3




                                                                                                                                                                    1249
                                                                                                                                                              15




                                                                                               Left Thru Right RTOR
                                                                                                 32  694   103   13


                                                                                                 215        842       1057
                                                                                                Out        In        Total
                                                                                                        State St
                             Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                   126 N. Salina St.
                                                                  Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                   T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                  www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                             File Name       : 5_20_09_James_State_Both
                                                                                             Site Code       : 00000222
                                                                                             Start Date      : 5/20/2009
                                                                                             Page No         :1


                                                          Groups Printed- Bicycles and Pedestr
                          State St                        James St                        State St                        James St
                   Southbound Approach             Westbound Approach              Northbound Approach              Eastbound Approach
 Start Time    Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total   Int. Total
     Factor     1.0   1.0   1.0    1.0          1.0   1.0    1.0  1.0           1.0   1.0   1.0    1.0          1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0
  07:00 AM        0     0     0      0     0      0     0      0    0      0      0     0     0      0     0      0     1     0     0      1             1
  07:15 AM        0     1     0      0     1      0     0      0    0      0      0     0     0      0     0      0     1     0     0      1             2
  07:30 AM        0     0     0      0     0      0     0      0    0      0      0     0     0      0     0      0     1     0     0      1             1
  07:45 AM        0     0     0      0     0      0     1      0    0      1      0     0     0      0     0      0     0     0     0      0             1
      Total       0     1     0      0     1      0     1      0    0      1      0     0     0      0     0      0     3     0     0      3             5

BREAK
  08:15 AM        0     0     0     0       0     0     2     0     0       2     0     0     0     0       0     0     1      0     0      1            3
BREAK
      Total       0     0     0     0       0     0     2     0     0       2     0     0     0     0       0     0     1      0     0      1            3

BREAK

  04:00 PM        0     0     0     4       4     0     3     0     4       7     0     0     0     3       3     0     0      0     0      0         14
  04:15 PM        0     0     0     1       1     0     0     0     2       2     0     0     0     9       9     0     0      0     0      0         12
  04:30 PM        0     0     0     1       1     1     1     0     6       8     0     3     0     8      11     0     1      0     3      4         24
  04:45 PM        0     0     0     3       3     0     0     0     7       7     0     0     0     4       4     0     0      0     2      2         16
      Total       0     0     0     9       9     1     4     0    19      24     0     3     0    24      27     0     1      0     5      6         66

  05:00 PM        0     0     0     2       2     0     0     0     7       7     0     0     0     7       7     0     0      0    2       2         18
  05:15 PM        0     0     0     1       1     0     1     0     3       4     0     0     0     6       6     0     0      0    2       2         13
  05:30 PM        0     0     0     2       2     0     0     0     2       2     1     0     0     3       4     0     2      0    5       7         15
  05:45 PM        0     0     0     2       2     0     1     0     5       6     0     0     0    12      12     0     0      0    3       3         23
      Total       0     0     0     7       7     0     2     0    17      19     1     0     0    28      29     0     2      0   12      14         69

 Grand Total      0     1     0  16        17     1    9      0   36       46     1     3     0  52        56     0    7       0   17      24       143
  Apprch %        0   5.9     0 94.1            2.2 19.6      0 78.3            1.8   5.4     0 92.9              0 29.2       0 70.8
   Total %        0   0.7     0 11.2     11.9   0.7  6.3      0 25.2     32.2   0.7   2.1     0 36.4     39.2     0  4.9       0 11.9    16.8
                               Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                       126 N. Salina St.
                                                                      Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                       T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                      www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                           File Name        : 5_28_09_james_ntownsend_both
                                                                                           Site Code        : 00791008
                                                                                           Start Date       : 5/28/2009
                                                                                           Page No          :1


                                                    Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles and B
                     N Townsend St                       James St                    N Townsend St                       James St
                  Southbound Approach             Westbound Approach              Northbound Approach              Eastbound Approach
Start Time    Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total         Int. Total
    Factor     1.0   1.0  1.0  1.0             1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0           1.0   1.0  1.0  1.0             1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0
 07:00 AM        6    27    4    0       37      2    70     7     0     79      2    41   21    0       64      6    37     3     1     47             227
 07:15 AM        4    25    4    0       33      6    71    10     1     88      4    43   16    0       63      7    59     5     1     72             256
 07:30 AM        8    43    4    2       57      8 123      12     0  143       10    43   36    0       89     12    76     5     2     95             384
 07:45 AM        4    48    7    2       61      8 132       8     0  148       10    58   26    1       95     18 119       3     0  140               444
     Total      22 143     19    4    188       24 396      37     1  458       26 185     99    1    311       43 291      16     4  354              1311

 08:00 AM       10     39       5     0     54      5    107    13      1   126     15     54    43    0     112      9    113      4     1    127      419
 08:15 AM        5     37       6     0     48     15    139    11      1   166     17     62    40    0     119     15    111      1     0    127      460
 08:30 AM        6     29       9     1     45     11    128    10      1   150     12     64    42    0     118     16    107      6     1    130      443
 08:45 AM        6     21       4     0     31      7    146    20      0   173     15     47    42    2     106     24    106      3     2    135      445
     Total      27    126      24     1    178     38    520    54      3   615     59    227   167    2     455     64    437     14     4    519     1767



 04:00 PM       13     76      16     0    105     12    157     2      1   172     20     99    47    0     166     21    134      2     0    157      600
 04:15 PM        6     53       8     1     68     15    154     9      0   178     30     94    64    2     190     19    129      8     2    158      594
 04:30 PM       12     46       8     1     67      5    178     4      0   187     28     88    68    1     185     16    153      5     1    175      614
 04:45 PM        8     50       9     0     67      7    166    11      1   185     19    106    56    4     185     18    145      6     0    169      606
     Total      39    225      41     2    307     39    655    26      2   722     97    387   235    7     726     74    561     21     3    659     2414

 05:00 PM        6     67       8     0     81     13    187     7      0   207     24     82    62    2     170     20    169      6     1    196      654
 05:15 PM       10     45      10     0     65     14    150    15      1   180     22     71    56    0     149     14    165     12     0    191      585
 05:30 PM        6     51       8     1     66     18    166     6      1   191     11     69    59    2     141     12    136      2     0    150      548
 05:45 PM        7     34      14     0     55     11    137     4      0   152     14     52    66    3     135     19    121      3     1    144      486
     Total      29    197      40     1    267     56    640    32      2   730     71    274   243    7     595     65    591     23     2    681     2273

Grand Total            117 691 124     8   940     157   2211   149     8   2525    253   1073 744     17    2087    246   1880     74    13   2213    7765
 Apprch % 12.4 73.5 13.2             0.9           6.2   87.6   5.9   0.3          12.1   51.4 35.6   0.8           11.1     85    3.3   0.6
     Total %           1.5 8.9 1.6   0.1   12.1      2   28.5   1.9   0.1   32.5    3.3   13.8  9.6   0.2    26.9    3.2   24.2      1   0.2   28.5
           Cars 116 686 124            8    934    156   2167   149     8   2480    251   1060 738     17    2066    245   1840     73    13   2171    7651
      % Cars 99.1 99.3 100           100   99.4   99.4    98    100   100   98.2   99.2   98.8 99.2   100      99   99.6   97.9   98.6   100   98.1    98.5
Heavy Vehicles and B     1   5   0     0      6      1    44      0     0     45      2     13    6     0      21      1     40      1     0     42     114
% Heavy Vehicles and B 0.9 0.7   0     0    0.6    0.6     2      0     0    1.8    0.8    1.2  0.8     0       1    0.4    2.1    1.4     0    1.9     1.5
                              Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                                              126 N. Salina St.
                                                                                             Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                                              T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                                             www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                                                        File Name           : 5_28_09_james_ntownsend_both
                                                                                                                        Site Code           : 00791008
                                                                                                                        Start Date          : 5/28/2009
                                                                                                                        Page No             :2

                      N Townsend St                       James St                 N Townsend St                      James St
                 Southbound Approach                 Westbound Approach         Northbound Approach              Eastbound Approach
 Start Time Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total                                                   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
  08:00 AM     10      39      5     0       54     5 107    13    1    126   15    54   43    0    112        9 113      4    1    127                                                          419
  08:15 AM      5      37      6     0       48    15 139    11    1    166   17    62   40    0    119       15 111      1    0    127                                                           460
  08:30 AM      6      29      9     1       45    11 128    10    1    150   12    64   42    0    118       16 107      6    1    130                                                         443
  08:45 AM      6      21      4     0       31     7 146    20    0    173   15    47   42    2    106       24 106      3    2    135                                                         445
 Total Volume  27 126         24     1      178    38 520    54    3    615   59 227 167       2    455       64 437     14    4    519                                                        1767
% App. Total   15.2   70.8   13.5        0.6                             6.2   84.6    8.8     0.5                13   49.9   36.7    0.4             12.3       84.2     2.7    0.8
       PHF     .675   .808   .667       .250                     .824   .633   .890   .675    .750     .889     .868   .887   .971   .250    .956     .667       .967    .583   .500   .961      .960

                                                                                                   N Townsend St
                                                                                               Out      In      Total
                                                                                                279      178      457


                                                                                                27  126         24    1
                                                                                             Right Thru       Left RTOR




                                                                                             Peak Hour Data
                               1233


                                                 14




                                                                                                                                                    Right Thru
                               Total




                                               Left




                                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                                                                                                                                       38


                                                                                                                                                                  520



                                                                                                        North
                                                           437
                                               RTOR Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                 James St
                             James St




                                                                                                                                                           520
                                  519
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                                    In




                                                                                             Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM
                                                                                                                                                                     615
                                                       64




                                                                                                                                                    Left RTOR
                                                                                                                                                      54




                                                                                             Cars
                                714




                                                                                             Heavy Vehicles and B
                               Out




                                                                                                                                                                 Total
                                                                                                                                                                 1135
                                                  4




                                                                                                                                                            3




                                                                                              Left Thru Right RTOR
                                                                                               167  227    59    2


                                                                                                244      455      699
                                                                                               Out      In      Total
                                                                                                   N Townsend St
                               Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                                               126 N. Salina St.
                                                                                              Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                                               T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                                              www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                                                         File Name           : 5_28_09_james_ntownsend_both
                                                                                                                         Site Code           : 00791008
                                                                                                                         Start Date          : 5/28/2009
                                                                                                                         Page No             :3
                      N Townsend St                            James St                      N Townsend St                         James St
                 Southbound Approach                     Westbound Approach               Northbound Approach                Eastbound Approach
               Rig Thr                                     Thr                               Thr                               Thr
 Start Time                 Left    RTOR  App. Total Right       Left RTOR App. Total Right       Left RTOR App. Total Right         Left RTOR App. Total                                      Int. Total
                ht      u                                    u                                 u                                 u
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:15 PM
  04:15 PM       6     53      8      1       68       15 154      9     0    178       30    94   64     2    190       19 129        8     2    158                                             594
  04:30 PM      12     46      8      1       67        5 178      4     0    187       28    88   68     1    185       16 153        5     1    175                                             614
  04:45 PM       8     50      9      0       67        7 166     11     1    185       19 106     56     4    185       18 145        6     0    169                                             606
  05:00 PM       6     67      8      0       81       13 187      7     0    207       24    82   62     2    170       20 169        6     1    196                                              654
 Total Volume   32 216        33      2     283        40 685     31     1    757 101 370 250             9    730       73 596       25     4    698                                           2468
 % App. Total   11.3   76.3   11.7        0.7                             5.3   90.5    4.1     0.1              13.8   50.7   34.2    1.2             10.5       85.4     3.6    0.6
        PHF     .667   .806   .917       .500                     .873   .667   .916   .705    .250     .914     .842   .873   .919   .563    .961     .913       .882    .781   .500   .890      .943

                                                                                                    N Townsend St
                                                                                                Out      In      Total
                                                                                                 435      283      718


                                                                                                 32  216         33    2
                                                                                              Right Thru       Left RTOR




                                                                                              Peak Hour Data
                                1665


                                                  25




                                                                                                                                                     Right Thru
                                Total




                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                                                                                                                        40


                                                                                                                                                                   730



                                                                                                         North
                                                            596
                                                RTOR Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                  James St
                              James St




                                                                                                                                                            685
                                   698
                                  In




                                                                                                                                                                     In
                                                                                                                                                                      757




                                                                                              Peak Hour Begins at 04:15 PM
                                                        73




                                                                                                                                                     Left RTOR
                                                                                                                                                       31




                                                                                              Cars
                                 967




                                                                                              Heavy Vehicles and B
                                Out




                                                                                                                                                                  Total
                                                   4




                                                                                                                                                                  1487
                                                                                                                                                             1




                                                                                               Left Thru Right RTOR
                                                                                                250  370   101    9


                                                                                                 320      730     1050
                                                                                                Out      In      Total
                                                                                                    N Townsend St
                            Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                  126 N. Salina St.
                                                                 Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                  T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                 www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                      File Name        : 5_28_09_james_ntownsend_both
                                                                                      Site Code        : 00791008
                                                                                      Start Date       : 5/28/2009
                                                                                      Page No          :1


                                                         Groups Printed- Bicyclists and Pedes
                     N Townsend St                       James St                    N Townsend St                       James St
                  Southbound Approach             Westbound Approach              Northbound Approach              Eastbound Approach
Start Time    Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total   Int. Total
    Factor     1.0   1.0  1.0  1.0             1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0           1.0   1.0  1.0  1.0             1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0
 07:00 AM        0     0    0    2        2      0     0     0     1      1      0     0    0    3        3      0     0     0     1      1           7
 07:15 AM        0     0    0    6        6      0     0     0     0      0      0     0    0    7        7      0     2     0     0      2          15
 07:30 AM        0     0    0    3        3      0     1     0     0      1      0     0    0    4        4      0     0     0     1      1           9
 07:45 AM        0     0    0    1        1      0     0     0     0      0      0     0    0    4        4      0     1     0     1      2           7
     Total       0     0    0   12       12      0     1     0     1      2      0     0    0   18       18      0     3     0     3      6          38

 08:00 AM        0     0     0     2       2     0     0     0     2       2     0     0     0     3       3     0     1      0    4       5         12
 08:15 AM        0     0     0     3       3     0     0     0     3       3     0     0     0     4       4     0     0      0    3       3         13
 08:30 AM        0     0     0     3       3     0     1     0     2       3     0     0     0     4       4     0     0      0    7       7         17
 08:45 AM        0     0     0     5       5     0     0     0     2       2     0     0     0     4       4     0     0      0    8       8         19
     Total       0     0     0    13      13     0     1     0     9      10     0     0     0    15      15     0     1      0   22      23         61



 04:00 PM        0     0     0     6       6     0     1     0     3       4     0     0     0     4       4     0     2      0     1      3         17
 04:15 PM        0     0     0     9       9     0     0     0     4       4     0     0     0     8       8     0     0      0     1      1         22
 04:30 PM        0     0     0     3       3     0     3     0     0       3     0     0     0     5       5     0     1      0     2      3         14
 04:45 PM        0     0     0     4       4     0     2     0     2       4     0     0     0     5       5     0     0      0     3      3         16
     Total       0     0     0    22      22     0     6     0     9      15     0     0     0    22      22     0     3      0     7     10         69

 05:00 PM        0     0     0     4       4     0     2     0     2       4     0     0     0     3       3     0     0      0    2       2         13
 05:15 PM        0     0     0     5       5     0     0     0     1       1     0     0     0     1       1     0     1      0    4       5         12
 05:30 PM        0     0     0     0       0     0     0     0     2       2     0     2     0     8      10     0     2      0    5       7         19
 05:45 PM        0     0     0     9       9     0     1     0     1       2     0     1     0     5       6     0     0      0    2       2         19
     Total       0     0     0    18      18     0     3     0     6       9     0     3     0    17      20     0     3      0   13      16         63

Grand Total      0     0     0  65        65     0   11      0   25       36     0     3     0  72        75     0   10       0   45      55       231
 Apprch %        0     0     0 100               0 30.6      0 69.4              0     4     0  96               0 18.2       0 81.8
  Total %        0     0     0 28.1     28.1     0  4.8      0 10.8     15.6     0   1.3     0 31.2     32.5     0  4.3       0 19.5    23.8
                                Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                      126 N. Salina St.
                                                                     Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                      T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                     www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                        File Name        : 5_28_09_James_NMcBride_Both
                                                                                        Site Code        : 00791007
                                                                                        Start Date       : 5/28/2009
                                                                                        Page No          :1


                                                     Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles and B
                       N McBride St                       James St                     N McBride St                       James St
                   Southbound Approach             Westbound Approach              Northbound Approach              Eastbound Approach
Start Time     Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total     Int. Total
     Factor     1.0   1.0  1.0   1.0            1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0           1.0   1.0  1.0   1.0            1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0
  07:00 AM        1     0    1     0       2      4    41     1     0     46      1     6    0     1       8      0    85     5     0     90          146
  07:15 AM        1     2    1     1       5      1    66     0     0     67      0     3    2     0       5      3    84     0     1     88          165
  07:30 AM        3     6    2     0      11      1    90     0     0     91      1    17    1     0      19      3 152       9     0  164            285
  07:45 AM        4     6    3     0      13      3 124       1     0  128        4     7    3     2      16      5 126       9     1  141            298
      Total       9    14    7     1      31      9 321       2     0  332        6    33    6     3      48     11 447      23     2  483            894

  08:00 AM        1      5       1     1      8     5    131     1     1   138      2   16     1    1      20      2    134     19     0    155      321
  08:15 AM        4      5       5     2     16     6    123     0     0   129      0    9     5    0      14      1    172     11     0    184      343
  08:30 AM        2      1       4     0      7     5    113     2     0   120      4    3     4    1      12      2    140      9     0    151      290
  08:45 AM        2      3       4     1     10     5    121     2     0   128      1   11     4    1      17      3    169     10     0    182      337
      Total       9     14      14     4     41    21    488     5     1   515      7   39    14    3      63      8    615     49     0    672     1291

**BREAK**

  03:45 PM       14     24      15     6     59     8    157     4     1   170      0   22    1     0      23      4    166     11     1    182       434
      Total      14     24      15     6     59     8    157     4     1   170      0   22    1     0      23      4    166     11     1    182       434

  04:00 PM       13     15      12     5     45     8    150     1     1   160      1   16    4     0      21      3    145      9     1    158      384
  04:15 PM        9     20      12     1     42    14    175     3     2   194      1   12    3     1      17      2    171      9     0    182      435
  04:30 PM        5     19      21     1     46     7    165     2     0   174      0   11    1     0      12      3    158     11     0    172      404
  04:45 PM       16     19      15     2     52    10    193     3     3   209      1   16    0     0      17      6    173     23     1    203      481
      Total      43     73      60     9    185    39    683     9     6   737      3   55    8     1      67     14    647     52     2    715     1704

  05:00 PM                9  20  14     4    47     11   186      2    1    200      3   15    3     1     22       4   154       7     0    165     434
  05:15 PM                6   7   8     4    25      8   142      4    2    156      2   12    2     2     18       4   180       5     0    189     388
  05:30 PM               11   4   4     5    24      4   140      2    1    147      2   17    1     2     22       2   149      10     1    162     355
 Grand Total 101 156 122               33   412    100   2117    28   12   2257     23 193    35    12    263      47   2358    157     6   2568    5500
  Apprch % 24.5 37.9 29.6               8          4.4   93.8   1.2  0.5           8.7 73.4 13.3   4.6            1.8   91.8    6.1   0.2
      Total %           1.8 2.8 2.2   0.6    7.5   1.8   38.5   0.5  0.2     41    0.4  3.5  0.6   0.2     4.8    0.9   42.9    2.9   0.1   46.7
            Cars 101 152 121           33    407    99   2070    28   11   2208     22 188    34    12     256     46   2300    155     6   2507    5378
       % Cars 100 97.4 99.2           100   98.8    99   97.8   100 91.7   97.8   95.7 97.4 97.1   100    97.3   97.9   97.5   98.7   100   97.6    97.8
 Heavy Vehicles and B     0   4   1     0      5     1     47     0    1     49      1    5    1     0       7      1     58      2     0     61     122
 % Heavy Vehicles and B   0 2.6 0.8     0    1.2     1    2.2     0  8.3    2.2    4.3  2.6  2.9     0     2.7    2.1    2.5    1.3     0    2.4     2.2
                              Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                                              126 N. Salina St.
                                                                                             Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                                              T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                                             www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                                                           File Name         : 5_28_09_James_NMcBride_Both
                                                                                                                           Site Code         : 00791007
                                                                                                                           Start Date        : 5/28/2009
                                                                                                                           Page No           :2

                        N McBride St                      James St                  N McBride St                      James St
                 Southbound Approach                 Westbound Approach         Northbound Approach              Eastbound Approach
 Start Time Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total                                                    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
  08:00 AM      1        5     1     1        8     5 131     1    1    138    2    16    1     1      20      2 134     19    0    155                                                           321
  08:15 AM      4        5     5     2       16     6 123     0    0    129    0     9    5    0       14      1 172     11    0    184                                                            343
  08:30 AM      2        1     4     0        7     5 113     2    0    120    4     3    4    1       12      2 140      9    0    151                                                          290
  08:45 AM      2        3     4     1       10     5 121     2    0    128    1    11    4    1       17      3 169     10    0    182                                                          337
 Total Volume   9      14     14     4       41    21 488     5    1    515    7    39   14    3       63      8 615     49    0    672                                                         1291
% App. Total     22   34.1   34.1        9.8                             4.1   94.8      1     0.2               11.1   61.9   22.2    4.8              1.2       91.5     7.3      0
       PHF     .563   .700   .700       .500                     .641   .875   .931   .625    .250      .933     .438   .609   .700   .750    .788     .667       .894    .645   .000   .913      .941

                                                                                                      N McBride St
                                                                                               Out        In       Total
                                                                                                109         41       150


                                                                                                 9   14          14    4
                                                                                             Right Thru        Left RTOR




                                                                                             Peak Hour Data
                               1183


                                                 49




                                                                                                                                                     Right Thru
                               Total




                                               Left




                                                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                                                                                                                        21


                                                                                                                                                                   636



                                                                                                         North
                                                           615
                                               RTOR Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                  James St
                             James St




                                                                                                                                                            488
                                  672
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                                     In




                                                                                             Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM
                                                                                                                                                                      515
                                                        8




                                                                                                                                                     Left




                                                                                             Cars
                                                                                                                                                            5
                                511




                                                                                             Heavy Vehicles and B
                               Out




                                                                                                                                                                  Total
                                                                                                                                                     RTOR



                                                                                                                                                                  1151
                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                        1




                                                                                              Left Thru Right RTOR
                                                                                                14   39     7    3


                                                                                                 27         63        90
                                                                                               Out        In       Total
                                                                                                      N McBride St
                               Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                                               126 N. Salina St.
                                                                                              Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                                               T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                                              www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                                                               File Name         : 5_28_09_James_NMcBride_Both
                                                                                                                               Site Code         : 00791007
                                                                                                                               Start Date        : 5/28/2009
                                                                                                                               Page No           :3
                        N McBride St                           James St                       N McBride St                         James St
                 Southbound Approach                     Westbound Approach               Northbound Approach                Eastbound Approach
               Rig Thr                                     Thr                               Thr                               Thr
 Start Time                 Left    RTOR  App. Total Right       Left RTOR App. Total Right       Left RTOR App. Total Right         Left RTOR App. Total                                          Int. Total
                ht      u                                    u                                 u                                 u
Peak Hour Analysis From 03:45 PM to 05:30 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:15 PM
  04:15 PM       9     20     12      1       42       14 175      3     2    194        1    12    3     1       17      2 171        9     0    182                                                 435
  04:30 PM       5     19     21      1       46        7 165      2     0    174        0    11    1     0       12      3 158       11     0    172                                                 404
  04:45 PM      16     19     15      2       52       10 193      3     3    209        1    16    0     0       17      6 173       23     1    203                                                  481
  05:00 PM       9     20     14      4       47       11 186      2     1    200        3    15    3     1       22      4 154        7     0    165                                                434
 Total Volume   39     78     62      8     187        42 719     10     6    777        5    54    7     2       68     15 656       50     1    722                                               1754
 % App. Total   20.9   41.7   33.2        4.3                             5.4   92.5    1.3     0.8                   7.4   79.4   10.3    2.9              2.1       90.9     6.9    0.1
        PHF     .609   .975   .738       .500                     .899   .750   .931   .833    .500         .929     .417   .844   .583   .500    .773     .625       .948    .543   .250   .889      .912

                                                                                                          N McBride St
                                                                                                Out           In       Total
                                                                                                 146           187       333


                                                                                                 39   78             62    8
                                                                                              Right Thru           Left RTOR




                                                                                              Peak Hour Data
                                1487


                                                  50




                                                                                                                                                         Right Thru
                                Total




                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                                      Out
                                                                                                                                                            42


                                                                                                                                                                       723



                                                                                                             North
                                                            656
                                                RTOR Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                      James St
                              James St




                                                                                                                                                                719
                                   722
                                  In




                                                                                                                                                                         In
                                                                                                                                                                          777




                                                                                              Peak Hour Begins at 04:15 PM
                                                        15




                                                                                                                                                         Left RTOR
                                                                                                                                                           10




                                                                                              Cars
                                 765




                                                                                              Heavy Vehicles and B
                                Out




                                                                                                                                                                      Total
                                                   1




                                                                                                                                                                      1500
                                                                                                                                                                 6




                                                                                               Left       Thru Right RTOR
                                                                                                      7     54     5    2


                                                                                                 103            68       171
                                                                                                Out           In       Total
                                                                                                          N McBride St
                            Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                  126 N. Salina St.
                                                                 Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                  T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                 www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                      File Name        : 5_28_09_James_NMcBride_Both
                                                                                      Site Code        : 00791007
                                                                                      Start Date       : 5/28/2009
                                                                                      Page No          :1


                                                         Groups Printed- Bicyclists and Pedes
                      N McBride St                       James St                     N McBride St                       James St
                  Southbound Approach             Westbound Approach              Northbound Approach              Eastbound Approach
Start Time    Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total   Int. Total
    Factor     1.0   1.0  1.0   1.0            1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0           1.0   1.0  1.0   1.0            1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0
 07:00 AM        0     0    0     5       5      0     0     0     0      0      0     0    0     4       4      0     0     0     1      1          10
 07:15 AM        0     0    0     4       4      0     2     0     1      3      0     0    0     6       6      0     0     0     1      1          14
 07:30 AM        0     0    0     2       2      0     0     0     0      0      0     0    0     5       5      0     1     0     1      2           9
 07:45 AM        0     0    0     3       3      0     1     0     1      2      0     0    0     1       1      0     0     0     0      0           6
     Total       0     0    0    14      14      0     3     0     2      5      0     0    0   16       16      0     1     0     3      4          39

 08:00 AM        0     0     0     1       1     0     1     0     1       2     0     0     0     4       4     0     0      0     0      0          7
 08:15 AM        0     0     0     4       4     0     1     0     0       1     0     0     0     8       8     0     0      0     0      0         13
 08:30 AM        0     0     0     9       9     0     1     0     0       1     0     0     0     1       1     0     1      0     0      1         12
 08:45 AM        0     0     0     7       7     0     0     0     1       1     0     0     0     8       8     0     0      0     1      1         17
     Total       0     0     0    21      21     0     3     0     2       5     0     0     0    21      21     0     1      0     1      2         49



 03:45 PM        0     0     1     4       5     0     2     0     1       3     0     0     0     6       6     0     0      0     1      1         15
     Total       0     0     1     4       5     0     2     0     1       3     0     0     0     6       6     0     0      0     1      1         15

 04:00 PM        0     0     0     8       8     0     0     0     1       1     0     0     0     8       8     0     0      0     1      1         18
 04:15 PM        0     0     0    10      10     0     1     0     0       1     0     0     0     3       3     0     3      0     0      3         17
 04:30 PM        0     0     0     8       8     0     1     0     0       1     0     0     0     3       3     0     3      0     2      5         17
 04:45 PM        0     0     0     5       5     0     1     0     1       2     0     0     0     8       8     0     2      0     1      3         18
     Total       0     0     0    31      31     0     3     0     2       5     0     0     0    22      22     0     8      0     4     12         70

 05:00 PM        0     0     0    0        0     0    0      0    1        1     0     0     0    8        8     0      0     0     0      0         9
 05:15 PM        0     0     0    6        6     0    2      0    0        2     0     0     0    0        0     0      0     0     4      4        12
 05:30 PM        0     0     0    4        4     0    0      0    1        1     0     0     0    8        8     0      1     0     1      2        15
Grand Total      0     0     1  80        81     0   13      0    9       22     0     0     0  81        81     0     11     0    14     25       209
 Apprch %        0     0   1.2 98.8              0 59.1      0 40.9              0     0     0 100               0     44     0    56
  Total %        0     0   0.5 38.3     38.8     0  6.2      0  4.3     10.5     0     0     0 38.8     38.8     0    5.3     0   6.7     12
                                Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                      126 N. Salina St.
                                                                     Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                      T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                     www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                        File Name     : 5_28_09_James_Catherine_BOTH
                                                                                        Site Code     : 00003434
                                                                                        Start Date    : 5/28/2009
                                                                                        Page No       :1


                                                     Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles and B
                        Catherine St                      James St                      Catherine St                      James St
                   Southbound Approach             Westbound Approach              Northbound Approach              Eastbound Approach
Start Time     Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total    Int. Total
     Factor     1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0           1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0           1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0           1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0
  07:00 AM        4    11     1     3     19      1    79     8     1     89      3    12     0     0     15      3    36     1     0     40        163
  07:15 AM        4    18     2     1     25      2    86    14     2  104        8    12     1     3     24      5    55     4     0     64        217
  07:30 AM       10    24     2     2     38      2 129      16     2  149       15    13     5     8     41      3    88     1     0     92        320
  07:45 AM        7    27     1     3     38      2 148      27     1  178        8    18     7     3     36      6 109       3     0  118          370
      Total      25    80     6     9  120        7 442      65     6  520       34    55    13    14  116       17 288       9     0  314         1070

  08:00 AM        5     27       0     0     32      1    128   23     1   153     13    14   11      3    41      8    111     7     1    127      353
  08:15 AM        9     26       0     1     36      3    163   27     3   196     14    15   12      2    43      9    106     1     0    116      391
  08:30 AM        9     26       1     4     40      2    139   18     0   159     12    19    9      3    43     13    106     1     1    121      363
  08:45 AM        7     31       0     1     39      2    166   15     0   183     13    20   11      2    46     12    104     2     1    119      387
      Total      30    110       1     6    147      8    596   83     4   691     52    68   43     10   173     42    427    11     3    483     1494

**BREAK**

  04:00 PM        8     26       6     3     43      2    139   13     5   159     18    36   21      1    76     12    147     6     0    165      443
  04:15 PM       13     19       1     3     36      3    132   15     5   155     15    41   20      3    79     14    151    10     4    179      449
  04:30 PM        5     23       3     1     32      5    146   16    10   177     15    43   22      0    80     10    166     9     1    186      475
  04:45 PM        5     29       0     0     34      4    135   17     4   160     12    49   21      0    82     10    167     3     1    181      457
      Total      31     97      10     7    145     14    552   61    24   651     60   169   84      4   317     46    631    28     6    711     1824

  05:00 PM        6     29       1     1     37     10    148   19     2   179     16    44   27      4    91      7    173     9     0    189      496
  05:15 PM        9     32       2     2     45      4    138   27     0   169     14    42   23      2    81      8    184     6     0    198      493
  05:30 PM        8     33       1     0     42      4    149   19     0   172     18    38   21      1    78      8    151     4     0    163      455
  05:45 PM        5     29       3     0     37      6    133    8     0   147     19    37   17      3    76      9    140     5     0    154      414
      Total      28    123       7     3    161     24    568   73     2   667     67   161   88     10   326     32    648    24     0    704     1858

 Grand Total            114 410  24    25   573      53   2158 282    36   2529    213 453 228    38      932     137   1994    72     9   2212    6246
  Apprch % 19.9 71.6            4.2   4.4           2.1   85.3 11.2  1.4          22.9 48.6 24.5  4.1             6.2   90.1   3.3   0.4
      Total %           1.8 6.6 0.4   0.4    9.2    0.8   34.6  4.5  0.6   40.5    3.4  7.3  3.7  0.6     14.9    2.2   31.9   1.2   0.1   35.4
            Cars 113 394         23    24    554     51   2110 279     6   2446    208 442 224    37       911    135   1955    72     9   2171    6082
       % Cars 99.1 96.1 95.8           96   96.7   96.2   97.8 98.9 16.7   96.7   97.7 97.6 98.2 97.4     97.7   98.5    98    100   100   98.1    97.4
 Heavy Vehicles and B     1  16   1     1     19      2     48    3   30     83      5   11    4    1       21      2    39      0     0     41     164
 % Heavy Vehicles and B 0.9 3.9 4.2     4    3.3    3.8    2.2  1.1 83.3    3.3    2.3  2.4  1.8  2.6      2.3    1.5     2      0     0    1.9     2.6
                              Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                                              126 N. Salina St.
                                                                                             Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                                              T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                                             www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                                                           File Name        : 5_28_09_James_Catherine_BOTH
                                                                                                                           Site Code        : 00003434
                                                                                                                           Start Date       : 5/28/2009
                                                                                                                           Page No          :2

                        Catherine St                      James St                   Catherine St                     James St
                 Southbound Approach                 Westbound Approach         Northbound Approach              Eastbound Approach
 Start Time Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total                                                       Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
  08:00 AM      5      27      0     0       32     1 128    23    1    153   13    14    11      3    41      8 111      7    1    127                                                              353
  08:15 AM      9      26      0     1       36     3 163    27    3    196   14    15    12     2     43      9 106      1    0    116                                                               391
  08:30 AM      9      26      1     4       40     2 139    18    0    159   12    19     9     3     43     13 106      1    1    121                                                             363
  08:45 AM      7      31      0     1       39     2 166    15    0    183   13    20    11     2     46     12 104      2    1    119                                                             387
 Total Volume  30 110          1     6      147     8 596    83    4    691   52    68    43    10  173       42 427     11    3    483                                                            1494
% App. Total   20.4   74.8     0.7       4.1                             1.2   86.3     12     0.6               30.1       39.3   24.9    5.8             8.7       88.4     2.3    0.6
       PHF     .833   .887   .250       .375                     .919   .667   .898   .769    .333      .881     .929       .850   .896   .833   .940     .808       .962    .393   .750   .951      .955

                                                                                                      Catherine St
                                                                                               Out        In       Total
                                                                                                 87        147       234


                                                                                                30  110               1      6
                                                                                             Right Thru        Left       RTOR




                                                                                             Peak Hour Data
                                1152


                                                 11




                                                                                                                                                        Right Thru
                                Total




                                               Left




                                                                                                                                                                     Out
                                                                                                                                                                      480
                                                                                                                                                            8




                                                                                                         North
                                                           427
                                               RTOR Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                     James St
                             James St




                                                                                                                                                               596
                                  483
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                                        In




                                                                                             Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM
                                                                                                                                                                         691
                                                       42




                                                                                                                                                        Left RTOR
                                                                                                                                                          83




                                                                                             Cars
                                 669




                                                                                             Heavy Vehicles and B
                                Out




                                                                                                                                                                     Total
                                                                                                                                                                     1171
                                                  3




                                                                                                                                                                4




                                                                                              Left Thru Right RTOR
                                                                                                43   68    52   10


                                                                                                235        173       408
                                                                                               Out        In       Total
                                                                                                      Catherine St
                               Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                                               126 N. Salina St.
                                                                                              Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                                               T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                                              www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                                                            File Name        : 5_28_09_James_Catherine_BOTH
                                                                                                                            Site Code        : 00003434
                                                                                                                            Start Date       : 5/28/2009
                                                                                                                            Page No          :3
                        Catherine St                           James St                        Catherine St                         James St
                 Southbound Approach                     Westbound Approach               Northbound Approach                 Eastbound Approach
               Rig Thr                                     Thr                               Thr                                Thr
 Start Time                 Left    RTOR  App. Total Right       Left RTOR App. Total Right        Left RTOR App. Total Right         Left RTOR App. Total                                         Int. Total
                ht      u                                    u                                 u                                  u
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
  04:30 PM       5     23      3      1       32        5 146     16    10    177       15    43    22     0       80     10 166        9     1    186                                                475
  04:45 PM       5     29      0      0       34        4 135     17     4    160       12    49    21     0       82     10 167        3     1    181                                                457
  05:00 PM       6     29      1      1       37       10 148     19     2    179       16    44    27      4      91      7 173        9     0    189                                                 496
  05:15 PM       9     32      2      2       45        4 138     27     0    169       14    42    23     2       81      8 184        6     0    198                                               493
 Total Volume   25 113         6      4     148        23 567     79    16    685       57 178      93     6    334       35 690       27     2    754                                              1921
 % App. Total   16.9   76.4     4.1       2.7                             3.4   82.8   11.5     2.3               17.1       53.3   27.8    1.8             4.6       91.5     3.6    0.3
        PHF     .694   .883   .500       .500                     .822   .575   .958   .731    .400      .957     .891       .908   .861   .375   .918     .875       .938    .750   .500   .952      .968

                                                                                                       Catherine St
                                                                                                Out        In       Total
                                                                                                 228        148       376


                                                                                                 25  113               6      4
                                                                                              Right Thru        Left       RTOR




                                                                                              Peak Hour Data
                                 1439


                                                  27




                                                                                                                                                         Right Thru
                                 Total




                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                                      Out
                                                                                                                                                            23


                                                                                                                                                                       753



                                                                                                          North
                                                            690
                                                RTOR Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                      James St
                              James St




                                                                                                                                                                567
                                   754
                                  In




                                                                                                                                                                         In
                                                                                                                                                                          685




                                                                                              Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                        35




                                                                                                                                                         Left RTOR
                                                                                                                                                           79




                                                                                              Cars
                                  685




                                                                                              Heavy Vehicles and B
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                                                      Total
                                                   2




                                                                                                                                                                      1438
                                                                                                                                                                16




                                                                                               Left Thru Right RTOR
                                                                                                 93  178    57    6


                                                                                                 227        334       561
                                                                                                Out        In       Total
                                                                                                       Catherine St
                            Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                  126 N. Salina St.
                                                                 Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                  T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                 www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                     File Name      : 5_28_09_James_Catherine_BOTH
                                                                                     Site Code      : 00003434
                                                                                     Start Date     : 5/28/2009
                                                                                     Page No        :1


                                                         Groups Printed- Bicyclists and Pedes
                      Catherine St                       James St                      Catherine St                      James St
                  Southbound Approach             Westbound Approach              Northbound Approach              Eastbound Approach
Start Time    Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total   Int. Total
    Factor     1.0   1.0  1.0   1.0            1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0           1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0           1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0
 07:00 AM        0     0    0     2       2      0     0     0     3      3      0     0     0     4      4      0     0     0     2      2          11
 07:15 AM        0     0    0     6       6      0     0     0     3      3      0     0     0     5      5      0     1     0     1      2          16
 07:30 AM        0     1    0     4       5      0     1     0     0      1      0     0     0     4      4      0     0     1     4      5          15
 07:45 AM        0     0    0     1       1      0     1     0     2      3      0     1     0     0      1      0     0     0     3      3           8
     Total       0     1    0    13      14      0     2     0     8     10      0     1     0    13     14      0     1     1    10     12          50

 08:00 AM        0     1     0     5       6     0     0     0     4       4     0     0     0     2       2     0     0      1    6       7         19
 08:15 AM        0     0     0     5       5     0     0     0     3       3     0     0     0     3       3     0     0      0    5       5         16
 08:30 AM        0     1     0     1       2     0     1     0     2       3     0     1     0     7       8     0     0      0    2       2         15
 08:45 AM        0     1     0     7       8     0     0     0     6       6     0     1     0     7       8     0     1      0    3       4         26
     Total       0     3     0    18      21     0     1     0    15      16     0     2     0    19      21     0     1      1   16      18         76



 04:00 PM        0     0     0     3       3     0     0     0     7       7     0     1     0     3       4     0     2      0    3       5         19
 04:15 PM        0     0     0     2       2     0     0     0     3       3     0     0     0     5       5     0     0      0    8       8         18
 04:30 PM        0     0     0     1       1     0     4     0     8      12     0     0     0     4       4     0     1      0    6       7         24
 04:45 PM        0     0     0     2       2     0     2     0     2       4     0     0     0     2       2     0     2      0    1       3         11
     Total       0     0     0     8       8     0     6     0    20      26     0     1     0    14      15     0     5      0   18      23         72

 05:00 PM        0     1     0     5       6     0     1     0     6       7     0     0     0     5       5     0     1      0    4       5         23
 05:15 PM        0     1     0     4       5     0     0     0     0       0     0     0     0     0       0     0     0      1    6       7         12
 05:30 PM        0     0     0     0       0     0     0     0     3       3     0     0     0     1       1     0     1      0    2       3          7
 05:45 PM        0     1     0     2       3     0     0     0     8       8     0     0     0     2       2     0     0      0    3       3         16
     Total       0     3     0    11      14     0     1     0    17      18     0     0     0     8       8     0     2      1   15      18         58

Grand Total      0    7      0  50        57     0   10      0   60       70     0      4    0  54        58     0    9       3   59      71       256
 Apprch %        0 12.3      0 87.7              0 14.3      0 85.7              0    6.9    0 93.1              0 12.7     4.2 83.1
  Total %        0  2.7      0 19.5     22.3     0  3.9      0 23.4     27.3     0    1.6    0 21.1     22.7     0  3.5     1.2   23    27.7
                                 Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                          126 N. Salina St.
                                                                         Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                          T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                         www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                                      File Name        : 5_28_09_James_Lodi_Both
                                                                                                      Site Code        : 00007777
                                                                                                      Start Date       : 5/28/2009
                                                                                                      Page No          :1


                                                     Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles and B
                          Lodi St                         James St                        Lodi St                         James St
                   Southbound Approach             Westbound Approach              Northbound Approach              Eastbound Approach
Start Time     Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total          Int. Total
     Factor     1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0           1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0           1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0           1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0
  07:00 AM        2    34     5     1     42     10    84     0     1     95      2    22     3     0     27      5    40     0     0     45              209
  07:15 AM        5    42     1     1     49      2    91     4     0     97      6    27     1     4     38      0    64     0     0     64              248
  07:30 AM        0    60     4     0     64     13 133       6     0  152       10    42     8     0     60      3    83     0     0     86              362
  07:45 AM        3    59    12     1     75     12 169       3     0  184       12    54     7     1     74      5 110       0     1  116                449
      Total      10 195      22     3  230       37 477      13     1  528       30 145      19     5  199       13 297       0     1  311               1268

  08:00 AM        6      50      10     1     67      8    150      8      1   167     13     47      7    1     68      4    113     1     2    120      422
  08:15 AM        3      58       6     0     67      8    183      2      1   194      8     58      5    0     71      7    103     0     0    110      442
  08:30 AM        3      43       9     0     55     15    146      6      0   167     16     64      9    3     92      8     81     4     2     95      409
  08:45 AM        9      56       8     1     74     13    167     11      0   191     11     54      7    1     73      8    109     5     0    122      460
      Total      21     207      33     2    263     44    646     27      2   719     48    223     28    5    304     27    406    10     4    447     1733

**BREAK**

  04:00 PM        6      64      15     2     87     16    129      6      1   152     23    125     11    0    159     17    143     4     1    165      563
  04:15 PM        4      44      11     0     59     18    123      6      0   147     24    131     12    0    167      9    145     3     3    160      533
  04:30 PM        2      50       9     0     61     15    105      3      1   124     16    107      9    2    134     12    133     4     0    149      468
  04:45 PM        2      46       9     1     58     16    120      3      0   139     25    106      5    1    137      6    135     2     0    143      477
      Total      14     204      44     3    265     65    477     18      2   562     88    469     37    3    597     44    556    13     4    617     2041

  05:00 PM        7      36      10     0     53     17    139      0      0   156     24     90     20    1    135     10    169     2     2    183      527
  05:15 PM        7      55      11     1     74     24    147      5      1   177     23    122     13    0    158     14    184     3     2    203      612
  05:30 PM       10      57      10     0     77     14    140      6      0   160     23     85     10    0    118      3    137     4     0    144      499
  05:45 PM        1      47      13     0     61     16    116      8      1   141     15     87      8    3    113      7    133     2     1    143      458
      Total      25     195      44     1    265     71    542     19      2   634     85    384     51    4    524     34    623    11     5    673     2096

 Grand Total             70 801 143      9   1023    217   2142     77     7   2443    251   1221    135  17    1624    118   1882    34    14   2048    7138
  Apprch %              6.8 78.3  14   0.9           8.9   87.7    3.2   0.3          15.5   75.2    8.3    1           5.8   91.9   1.7   0.7
      Total %             1 11.2   2   0.1   14.3      3     30    1.1   0.1   34.2    3.5   17.1    1.9  0.2   22.8    1.7   26.4   0.5   0.2   28.7
            Cars         69 771 141      9    990    211   2093     75     7   2386    244   1181    128  16    1569    117   1835    34    14   2000    6945
       % Cars 98.6 96.3 98.6           100   96.8   97.2   97.7   97.4   100   97.7   97.2   96.7   94.8 94.1   96.6   99.2   97.5   100   100   97.7    97.3
 Heavy Vehicles and B     1   30   2     0     33      6     49      2     0     57      7     40      7    1     55      1     47     0     0     48     193
 % Heavy Vehicles and B 1.4  3.7 1.4     0    3.2    2.8    2.3    2.6     0    2.3    2.8    3.3    5.2  5.9    3.4    0.8    2.5     0     0    2.3     2.7
                              Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                                              126 N. Salina St.
                                                                                             Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                                              T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                                             www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                                                                  File Name          : 5_28_09_James_Lodi_Both
                                                                                                                                  Site Code          : 00007777
                                                                                                                                  Start Date         : 5/28/2009
                                                                                                                                  Page No            :2

                           Lodi St                        James St                     Lodi St                         James St
                 Southbound Approach                 Westbound Approach         Northbound Approach              Eastbound Approach
 Start Time Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total                                                    Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00 AM
  08:00 AM      6      50     10     1       67     8 150     8    1    167   13    47    7    1       68      4 113       1    2   120                                                           422
  08:15 AM      3      58      6     0       67     8 183     2    1    194    8    58    5    0       71      7 103       0    0   110                                                           442
  08:30 AM      3      43      9     0       55    15 146     6    0    167   16    64    9    3       92      8    81     4    2      95                                                         409
  08:45 AM      9      56      8     1       74    13 167    11    0    191   11    54    7    1       73      8 109       5    0   122                                                            460
 Total Volume  21 207         33     2      263    44 646    27    2    719   48 223     28    5    304       27 406      10    4   447                                                         1733
% App. Total      8   78.7   12.5        0.8                             6.1   89.8    3.8     0.3               15.8   73.4     9.2    1.6               6       90.8     2.2    0.9
       PHF     .583   .892   .825       .500                     .889   .733   .883   .614    .500     .927      .750   .871   .778    .417   .826     .844       .898    .500   .500   .916      .942

                                                                                                       Lodi St
                                                                                               Out       In         Total
                                                                                                277       263         540


                                                                                                21  207         33    2
                                                                                             Right Thru       Left RTOR




                                                                                             Peak Hour Data
                               1142


                                                 10




                                                                                                                                                     Right Thru
                               Total




                                               Left




                                                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                                                                                                                        44


                                                                                                                                                                   487



                                                                                                        North
                                                           406
                                               RTOR Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                  James St
                             James St




                                                                                                                                                            646
                                  447
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                                     In




                                                                                             Peak Hour Begins at 08:00 AM
                                                                                                                                                                      719
                                                       27




                                                                                                                                                     Left RTOR
                                                                                                                                                       27




                                                                                             Cars
                                695




                                                                                             Heavy Vehicles and B
                               Out




                                                                                                                                                                  Total
                                                                                                                                                                  1206
                                                  4




                                                                                                                                                             2




                                                                                              Left Thru Right RTOR
                                                                                                28  223    48    5


                                                                                                261       304         565
                                                                                               Out       In         Total
                                                                                                       Lodi St
                               Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                                               126 N. Salina St.
                                                                                              Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                                               T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                                              www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                                                                   File Name          : 5_28_09_James_Lodi_Both
                                                                                                                                   Site Code          : 00007777
                                                                                                                                   Start Date         : 5/28/2009
                                                                                                                                   Page No            :3
                           Lodi St                             James St                          Lodi St                           James St
                 Southbound Approach                     Westbound Approach               Northbound Approach                Eastbound Approach
               Rig Thr                                     Thr                               Thr                               Thr
 Start Time                 Left    RTOR  App. Total Right       Left RTOR App. Total Right       Left RTOR App. Total Right         Left RTOR App. Total                                       Int. Total
                ht      u                                    u                                 u                                 u
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:45 PM
  04:45 PM       2     46      9      1       58       16 120      3     0    139       25 106      5     1    137        6 135        2     0    143                                              477
  05:00 PM       7     36     10      0       53       17 139      0     0    156       24    90   20     1    135       10 169        2     2    183                                              527
  05:15 PM       7     55     11      1       74       24 147      5     1    177       23 122     13     0    158       14 184        3     2    203                                               612
  05:30 PM      10     57     10      0       77       14 140      6     0    160       23    85   10     0    118        3 137        4     0    144                                             499
 Total Volume   26 194        40      2     262        71 546     14     1    632       95 403     48     2    548       33 625       11     4    673                                            2115
 % App. Total    9.9     74   15.3        0.8                            11.2   86.4    2.2     0.2               17.3   73.5     8.8    0.4             4.9       92.9     1.6    0.6
        PHF     .650   .851   .909       .500                     .851   .740   .929   .583    .250     .893      .950   .826   .600    .500   .867     .589       .849    .688   .500   .829      .864

                                                                                                        Lodi St
                                                                                                Out       In         Total
                                                                                                 485       262         747


                                                                                                 26  194         40    2
                                                                                              Right Thru       Left RTOR




                                                                                              Peak Hour Data
                                1293


                                                  11




                                                                                                                                                      Right Thru
                                Total




                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                                   Out
                                                                                                                                                         71


                                                                                                                                                                    760



                                                                                                         North
                                                            625
                                                RTOR Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                   James St
                              James St




                                                                                                                                                             546
                                   673
                                  In




                                                                                                                                                                      In
                                                                                                                                                                       632




                                                                                              Peak Hour Begins at 04:45 PM
                                                        33




                                                                                                                                                      Left RTOR
                                                                                                                                                        14




                                                                                              Cars
                                 620




                                                                                              Heavy Vehicles and B
                                Out




                                                                                                                                                                   Total
                                                   4




                                                                                                                                                                   1392
                                                                                                                                                              1




                                                                                               Left Thru Right RTOR
                                                                                                 48  403    95    2


                                                                                                 241       548         789
                                                                                                Out       In         Total
                                                                                                        Lodi St
                            Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                  126 N. Salina St.
                                                                 Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                  T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                 www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                              File Name        : 5_28_09_James_Lodi_Both
                                                                                              Site Code        : 00007777
                                                                                              Start Date       : 5/28/2009
                                                                                              Page No          :1


                                                         Groups Printed- Bicyclists and Pedes
                         Lodi St                         James St                        Lodi St                         James St
                  Southbound Approach             Westbound Approach              Northbound Approach              Eastbound Approach
Start Time    Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total   Int. Total
    Factor     1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0           1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0           1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0           1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0
 07:00 AM        0     1     0     1      2      0     0     0     2      2      0     0     0     3      3      0     0     0     4      4          11
 07:15 AM        0     1     0     6      7      0     0     0     3      3      0     0     0     1      1      0     1     0     0      1          12
 07:30 AM        0     1     0     1      2      0     0     0     1      1      0     0     0     1      1      0     1     0     1      2           6
 07:45 AM        0     0     0     1      1      0     1     0     8      9      0     0     0     1      1      0     0     0     0      0          11
     Total       0     3     0     9     12      0     1     0    14     15      0     0     0     6      6      0     2     0     5      7          40

 08:00 AM        0     3     0     1       4     0     0     0     2       2     0     0     0     2       2     0     0      0    3       3         11
 08:15 AM        0     1     0     6       7     0     0     0     6       6     0     0     0     1       1     0     0      0    4       4         18
 08:30 AM        0     1     0     1       2     0     0     0     0       0     0     1     0     1       2     0     0      0    2       2          6
 08:45 AM        0     1     0     4       5     0     0     0     3       3     0     0     0     0       0     0     0      0    1       1          9
     Total       0     6     0    12      18     0     0     0    11      11     0     1     0     4       5     0     0      0   10      10         44



 04:00 PM        0     0     0     3       3     0     0     0     2       2     0     0     0     4       4     0     2      0    3       5         14
 04:15 PM        0     1     0     4       5     0     0     0     3       3     0     1     0     1       2     0     0      0    1       1         11
 04:30 PM        0     0     0     3       3     0     0     0     5       5     0     1     0     5       6     0     0      0    4       4         18
 04:45 PM        0     0     0     0       0     0     1     0     5       6     0     0     0     3       3     0     0      0    2       2         11
     Total       0     1     0    10      11     0     1     0    15      16     0     2     0    13      15     0     2      0   10      12         54

 05:00 PM        0     0     1     5       6     0     1     0    11      12     0     0     0     0       0     1     0      0    6       7         25
 05:15 PM        0     0     0     7       7     0     0     0     4       4     0     0     0     0       0     0     0      0    3       3         14
 05:30 PM        0     0     0     1       1     0     1     0     0       1     0     1     0     0       1     0     1      0   11      12         15
 05:45 PM        0     0     0     4       4     0     0     0     4       4     0     0     0     3       3     0     0      0    3       3         14
     Total       0     0     1    17      18     0     2     0    19      21     0     1     0     3       4     1     1      0   23      25         68

Grand Total      0   10      1  48        59     0     4     0   59       63     0    4      0  26        30      1     5     0   48      54       206
 Apprch %        0 16.9    1.7 81.4              0   6.3     0 93.7              0 13.3      0 86.7             1.9   9.3     0 88.9
  Total %        0  4.9    0.5 23.3     28.6     0   1.9     0 28.6     30.6     0  1.9      0 12.6     14.6    0.5   2.4     0 23.3    26.2
                                Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                       126 N. Salina St.
                                                                      Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                       T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                      www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                                File Name        : 5_27_09_James_Oak_Both
                                                                                                Site Code        : 12345678
                                                                                                Start Date       : 5/27/2009
                                                                                                Page No          :1


                                                     Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles and B
                          Oak St                          James St                        Oak St                          James St
                   Southbound Approach             Westbound Approach              Northbound Approach              Eastbound Approach
 Start Time    Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total     Int. Total
     Factor     1.0   1.0  1.0   1.0            1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0           1.0   1.0  1.0   1.0            1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0
  07:00 AM        2     5    5     0      12      5    49     5     0     59      9    11    3     6      29      2    60     5     1     68         168
  07:15 AM        4     5    1     1      11      3    51     7     0     61     22    33    5     7      67     10    63    10     2     85         224
  07:30 AM        4    14    8     1      27      9    60     5     1     75     18    44   13     1      76      2    90     8     0  100           278
  07:45 AM       14    21    4     5      44      8    80     9     1     98     26    55   12     4      97     10 131      15     0  156           395
      Total      24    45   18     7      94     25 240      26     2  293       75 143     33   18    269       24 344      38     3  409          1065

  08:00 AM        7     21       5     1     34     10     74   10      0    94     24    33   16    2     75     14    150     15     0    179      382
  08:15 AM        8     21       8     0     37      4     90    4      3   101     29    29   11    0     69     11    144     13     1    169      376
  08:30 AM        4     10       6     1     21      4     89   16      3   112     13    27   10    5     55     11    125     12     2    150      338
  08:45 AM        8     20       8     0     36      5     83   10      0    98     23    29   12    5     69      6    124      9     1    140      343
      Total      27     72      27     2    128     23    336   40      6   405     89   118   49   12    268     42    543     49     4    638     1439

BREAK

  03:45 PM       13     38       5     0     56      7    138   20      1   166     12   36    11    2     61     11    108      6     1    126       409
      Total      13     38       5     0     56      7    138   20      1   166     12   36    11    2     61     11    108      6     1    126       409

  04:00 PM       11     27      12     1     51      4    143    30     1   178     13    25   19    1     58      5    110      8     0    123      410
  04:15 PM       12     46      10     2     70     14    151    25     1   191     10    32   13    2     57      9    100      5     0    114      432
  04:30 PM        8     46       9     1     64      5    134    24     0   163     19    34    9    5     67     13    101      9     1    124      418
  04:45 PM       19     64      16     1    100      5    164    29     1   199     16    33   22    4     75     14    108      8     1    131      505
      Total      50    183      47     5    285     28    592   108     3   731     58   124   63   12    257     41    419     30     2    492     1765

BREAK
  05:15 PM        7     31      10     1     49     11    112   12      2   137     20   24    11    2     57      8     92      8     0    108       351
  05:30 PM        3     31       4     0     38      8     99   17      0   124      9   17     8    1     35      9     84      5     0     98       295
  05:45 PM        8     35      10     2     55      4     71   17      1    93     12   19    10    3     44     12     83      8     2    105       297
      Total      18     97      24     3    142     23    282   46      3   354     41   60    29    6    136     29    259     21     2    311       943

 Grand Total            132 435 121    17   705     106   1588 240     15   1949    275 481 185      50   991     147   1673    144    12   1976    5621
  Apprch % 18.7 61.7 17.2             2.4           5.4   81.5 12.3   0.8          27.7 48.5 18.7     5           7.4   84.7    7.3   0.6
      Total %           2.3 7.7 2.2   0.3   12.5    1.9   28.3  4.3   0.3   34.7    4.9  8.6  3.3   0.9   17.6    2.6   29.8    2.6   0.2   35.2
            Cars 127 424 118           17    686    105   1545 236     15   1901    273 465 180      50    968    143   1625    139    12   1919    5474
       % Cars 96.2 97.5 97.5          100   97.3   99.1   97.3 98.3   100   97.5   99.3 96.7 97.3   100   97.7   97.3   97.1   96.5   100   97.1    97.4
 Heavy Vehicles and B     5  11   3     0     19      1     43    4     0     48      2   16    5     0     23      4     48      5     0     57     147
 % Heavy Vehicles and B 3.8 2.5 2.5     0    2.7    0.9    2.7  1.7     0    2.5    0.7  3.3  2.7     0    2.3    2.7    2.9    3.5     0    2.9     2.6
                              Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                                              126 N. Salina St.
                                                                                             Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                                              T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                                             www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                                                                  File Name         : 5_27_09_James_Oak_Both
                                                                                                                                  Site Code         : 12345678
                                                                                                                                  Start Date        : 5/27/2009
                                                                                                                                  Page No           :2

                           Oak St                          James St                    Oak St                         James St
                 Southbound Approach                 Westbound Approach         Northbound Approach              Eastbound Approach
 Start Time Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total                                                   Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
  07:45 AM     14      21      4     5       44     8   80     9    1    98   26    55   12    4       97     10 131     15    0    156                                                           395
  08:00 AM      7      21      5     1       34    10   74    10    0    94   24    33   16    2       75     14 150     15    0    179                                                         382
  08:15 AM      8      21      8     0       37     4   90     4    3   101   29    29   11    0       69     11 144     13    1    169                                                         376
  08:30 AM      4      10      6     1       21     4   89    16    3   112   13    27   10    5       55     11 125     12    2    150                                                         338
 Total Volume  33      73     23     7      136    26 333     39    7   405   92 144     49   11    296       46 550     55    3    654                                                        1491
% App. Total   24.3   53.7   16.9        5.1                             6.4   82.2    9.6     1.7              31.1    48.6   16.6    3.7               7       84.1     8.4    0.5
       PHF     .589   .869   .719       .350                     .773   .650   .925   .609    .583     .904     .793    .655   .766   .550   .763     .821       .917    .917   .375   .913      .944

                                                                                                       Oak St
                                                                                               Out       In         Total
                                                                                                225       136         361


                                                                                                33   73         23    7
                                                                                             Right Thru       Left RTOR




                                                                                             Peak Hour Data
                               1069


                                                 55




                                                                                                                                                    Right Thru
                               Total




                                               Left




                                                                                                                                                                 Out
                                                                                                                                                       26


                                                                                                                                                                  665



                                                                                                        North
                                                           550
                                               RTOR Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                 James St
                             James St




                                                                                                                                                           333
                                  654
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                                    In




                                                                                             Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                                                                                                                                                     405
                                                       46




                                                                                                                                                    Left RTOR
                                                                                                                                                      39




                                                                                             Cars
                                415




                                                                                             Heavy Vehicles and B
                               Out




                                                                                                                                                                 Total
                                                                                                                                                                 1070
                                                  3




                                                                                                                                                            7




                                                                                              Left Thru Right RTOR
                                                                                                49  144    92   11


                                                                                                158       296         454
                                                                                               Out       In         Total
                                                                                                       Oak St
                               Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                                               126 N. Salina St.
                                                                                              Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                                               T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                                              www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                                                                   File Name         : 5_27_09_James_Oak_Both
                                                                                                                                   Site Code         : 12345678
                                                                                                                                   Start Date        : 5/27/2009
                                                                                                                                   Page No           :3
                           Oak St                              James St                          Oak St                            James St
                 Southbound Approach                     Westbound Approach               Northbound Approach                Eastbound Approach
               Rig Thr                                     Thr                               Thr                               Thr
 Start Time                 Left    RTOR  App. Total Right       Left RTOR App. Total Right       Left RTOR App. Total Right         Left RTOR App. Total                                      Int. Total
                ht      u                                    u                                 u                                 u
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:00 PM
  04:00 PM      11     27     12      1       51        4 143     30     1    178       13    25   19     1       58      5 110        8     0    123                                             410
  04:15 PM      12     46     10      2       70       14 151     25     1    191       10    32   13     2       57      9 100        5     0    114                                             432
  04:30 PM       8     46      9      1       64        5 134     24     0    163       19    34    9     5       67     13 101        9     1    124                                             418
  04:45 PM      19     64     16      1     100         5 164     29     1    199       16    33   22     4       75     14 108        8     1    131                                              505
 Total Volume   50 183        47      5     285        28 592 108        3    731       58 124     63    12    257       41 419       30     2    492                                           1765
 % App. Total   17.5   64.2   16.5        1.8                             3.8     81   14.8     0.4              22.6    48.2   24.5    4.7             8.3       85.2     6.1    0.4
        PHF     .658   .715   .734       .625                     .713   .500   .902   .900    .750     .918     .763    .912   .716   .600   .857     .732       .952    .833   .500   .939      .874

                                                                                                        Oak St
                                                                                                Out       In         Total
                                                                                                 182       285         467


                                                                                                 50  183         47    5
                                                                                              Right Thru       Left RTOR




                                                                                              Peak Hour Data
                                1197


                                                  30




                                                                                                                                                     Right Thru
                                Total




                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                                                                                                                        28


                                                                                                                                                                   524



                                                                                                         North
                                                            419
                                                RTOR Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                  James St
                              James St




                                                                                                                                                            592
                                   492
                                  In




                                                                                                                                                                     In
                                                                                                                                                                      731




                                                                                              Peak Hour Begins at 04:00 PM
                                                        41




                                                                                                                                                     Left RTOR
                                                                                                                                                      108




                                                                                              Cars
                                 705




                                                                                              Heavy Vehicles and B
                                Out




                                                                                                                                                                  Total
                                                   2




                                                                                                                                                                  1255
                                                                                                                                                             3




                                                                                               Left Thru Right RTOR
                                                                                                 63  124    58   12


                                                                                                 332       257         589
                                                                                                Out       In         Total
                                                                                                        Oak St
                            Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                  126 N. Salina St.
                                                                 Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                  T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                 www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                              File Name        : 5_27_09_James_Oak_Both
                                                                                              Site Code        : 12345678
                                                                                              Start Date       : 5/27/2009
                                                                                              Page No          :1


                                                         Groups Printed- Bicycles and Pedestr
                         Oak St                          James St                        Oak St                          James St
                  Southbound Approach             Westbound Approach              Northbound Approach              Eastbound Approach
Start Time    Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total   Int. Total
    Factor     1.0   1.0  1.0   1.0            1.0   1.0    1.0  1.0           1.0   1.0  1.0   1.0            1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0
 07:00 AM        0     0    0     0       0      0     0      0    0      0      0     0    0     5       5      0     0     0     0      0           5
 07:15 AM        0     0    0     0       0      0     0      0    4      4      1     0    0     2       3      0     0     0     1      1           8
 07:30 AM        0     0    0     1       1      0     0      0    8      8      0     0    0     1       1      0     0     0     1      1          11
 07:45 AM        0     1    0     2       3      0     0      0    3      3      0     1    0     5       6      0     0     0     5      5          17
     Total       0     1    0     3       4      0     0      0   15     15      1     1    0   13       15      0     0     0     7      7          41

 08:00 AM        0     0     0     1       1     0     1     0     1       2     0     0     0     4       4     0     0      0    8       8         15
 08:15 AM        0     0     0     4       4     0     0     0     0       0     0     0     0     1       1     0     1      0    2       3          8
 08:30 AM        0     0     0     2       2     0     0     0     1       1     0     0     0     5       5     0     1      0    2       3         11
 08:45 AM        0     0     0     2       2     0     0     0     1       1     0     0     0     5       5     0     0      0    3       3         11
     Total       0     0     0     9       9     0     1     0     3       4     0     0     0    15      15     0     2      0   15      17         45



 03:45 PM        0     0     0     1       1     0     0     0     0       0     0     0     0     5       5     0     1      0     1      2            8
     Total       0     0     0     1       1     0     0     0     0       0     0     0     0     5       5     0     1      0     1      2            8

 04:00 PM        0     0     0     0       0     0     0     0     2       2     0     0     0     3       3     0     0      0    5       5         10
 04:15 PM        0     1     0     1       2     0     1     1     3       5     0     0     0     2       2     0     1      0    1       2         11
 04:30 PM        0     0     0     0       0     0     2     0     1       3     0     0     0     2       2     0     1      0    5       6         11
 04:45 PM        0     0     0     0       0     0     1     1     4       6     0     0     0     2       2     0     1      0    2       3         11
     Total       0     1     0     1       2     0     4     2    10      16     0     0     0     9       9     0     3      0   13      16         43


 05:15 PM        0     0     0     8       8     0     0     0     7       7     0     0     0     4       4     0     0      0     3      3         22
 05:30 PM        0     0     0     0       0     0     0     0     1       1     0     0     0     7       7     0     0      0     1      1          9
 05:45 PM        0     0     0     1       1     0     0     0     2       2     0     0     0     2       2     0     1      0     3      4          9
     Total       0     0     0     9       9     0     0     0    10      10     0     0     0    13      13     0     1      0     7      8         40

Grand Total      0     2     0    23      25     0    5      2   38       45     1     1     0  55        57     0     7      0   43      50       177
 Apprch %        0     8     0    92             0 11.1    4.4 84.4            1.8   1.8     0 96.5              0    14      0   86
  Total %        0   1.1     0    13    14.1     0  2.8    1.1 21.5     25.4   0.6   0.6     0 31.1     32.2     0     4      0 24.3    28.2
                                     Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                                    126 N. Salina St.
                                                                                   Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                                    T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                                   www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                                            File Name       : 5_27_09_James_Dewitt_Both
                                                                                                            Site Code       : 00000009
                                                                                                            Start Date      : 5/27/2009
                                                                                                            Page No         :1


                                                                     Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles and B
                                                                                                   Driveway (Daybreak on
                               Dewitt St                                  James St                                                        James St
                                                                                                           James)
                         Southbound Approach                       Westbound Approach                                               Eastbound Approach
                                                                                                   Northbound Approach
Start Time Right Thru               Left   RTOR   App. Total   Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total   Int. Total
     Factor           1.0     1.0    1.0    1.0                 1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0           1.0    1.0   1.0  1.0           1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0
  07:00 AM              2       0     14      1       17          4    67     0     1     72      4      1     0    2      7      1    49     0     0     50        146
  07:15 AM              6       0     15      4       25          7    78     2     3     90      0      1     2    0      3      2    58     1     1     62        180
  07:30 AM             11       0     34      4       49         23 108       0     4  135        0      0     0    0      0      0    62     2     0     64        248
  07:45 AM              6       2     59      3       70         32 155       0    12  199        1      0     2    1      4      2    95     2     1  100          373
      Total            25       2   122      12      161         66 408       2    20  496        5      2     4    3     14      5 264       5     2  276          947

  08:00 AM             13      2     32      4        51        38    183     0      6   227      0     0     2     0       2     4    71     0      1     76      356
  08:15 AM             13      0     25      2        40        24    161     0      3   188      1     1     0     0       2     0    84     3      0     87      317
  08:30 AM             12      1     33      3        49        15    141     0      4   160      0     0     2     0       2     3    75     0      1     79      290
  08:45 AM             10      0     27      1        38        18    130     1      4   153      1     4     3     1       9     2    78     6      0     86      286
      Total            48      3    117     10       178        95    615     1     17   728      2     5     7     1      15     9   308     9      2    328     1249

BREAK

  04:00 PM             11      2     53      3        69        24     96     0      4   124      0     0     3     0       3     1   149    13      0    163      359
  04:15 PM              6      0     23      1        30        33     99     1      4   137      0     0     1     0       1     1   157     7      0    165      333
  04:30 PM              4      1     39      1        45        36     91     0      2   129      2     0     3     1       6     3   170     8      0    181      361
  04:45 PM              4      0     41      0        45        23    103     0      1   127      0     0     1     0       1     2   151     9      0    162      335
      Total            25      3    156      5       189       116    389     1     11   517      2     0     8     1      11     7   627    37      0    671     1388

  05:00 PM              8      2     45      1        56        30     94     0      6   130      0     0     4     0       4     1   194    19      0    214      404
  05:15 PM              8      0     44      4        56        37     87     1      4   129      3     0     2     0       5     1   181    11      0    193      383
  05:30 PM              5      0     42      2        49        43     84     0      7   134      0     0     1     0       1     0   129     7      1    137      321
  05:45 PM              4      1     37      0        42        39     79     0      4   122      3     2     1     1       7     0    95     6      0    101      272
      Total            25      3    168      7       203       149    344     1     21   515      6     2     8     1      17     2   599    43      1    645     1380

 Grand Total            123    11 563    34          731        426   1756     5    69   2256     15    9   27    6        57    23   1798    94     5   1920     4964
  Apprch % 16.8               1.5   77  4.7                    18.9   77.8   0.2   3.1          26.3 15.8 47.4 10.5             1.2   93.6   4.9   0.3
      Total %           2.5   0.2 11.3  0.7         14.7        8.6   35.4   0.1   1.4   45.4    0.3  0.2  0.5  0.1       1.1   0.5   36.2   1.9   0.1   38.7
            Cars 121           11 558    33          723        424   1709     5    69   2207     15    9   26    6        56    23   1750    94     4   1871     4857
       % Cars 98.4            100 99.1 97.1         98.9       99.5   97.3   100   100   97.8    100 100 96.3 100        98.2   100   97.3   100    80   97.4     97.8
 Heavy Vehicles and B     2     0    5    1            8          2     47     0     0     49      0    0    1    0         1     0     48     0     1     49      107
 % Heavy Vehicles and B 1.6     0  0.9  2.9          1.1        0.5    2.7     0     0    2.2      0    0  3.7    0       1.8     0    2.7     0    20    2.6      2.2
                              Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                                              126 N. Salina St.
                                                                                             Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                                              T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                                             www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                                                                      File Name       : 5_27_09_James_Dewitt_Both
                                                                                                                                      Site Code       : 00000009
                                                                                                                                      Start Date      : 5/27/2009
                                                                                                                                      Page No         :2

                                                                                                                           Driveway (Daybreak on
                        Dewitt St                                               James St                                                                         James St
                                                                                                                                  James)
                  Southbound Approach                                      Westbound Approach                                                               Eastbound Approach
                                                                                                                           Northbound Approach
 Start Time Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left                                   RTOR       App. Total    Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total               Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
  07:45 AM      6        2    59     3       70    32 155  0                                    12          199           1       0     2      1      4            2     95        2     1    100        373
  08:00 AM     13       2     32     4       51    38 183  0                                     6          227           0       0     2      0      2            4     71        0     1     76      356
  08:15 AM     13       0     25     2       40    24 161  0                                     3          188           1       1     0      0      2            0     84        3     0     87      317
  08:30 AM     12       1     33     3       49    15 141  0                                     4          160           0       0     2      0      2            3     75        0     1     79      290
 Total Volume  44       5 149       12      210 109 640    0                                    25          774           2       1     6      1     10            9    325        5     3    342     1336
% App. Total     21    2.4     71        5.7                            14.1   82.7      0     3.2                       20     10      60     10             2.6         95     1.5    0.9
       PHF     .846   .625   .631       .750                     .750   .717   .874   .000    .521          .852       .500   .250    .750   .250   .625     .563       .855    .417   .750   .855      .895

                                                                                                           Dewitt St
                                                                                                Out          In           Total
                                                                                                 115          210           325


                                                                                                 44     5              149   12
                                                                                              Right Thru              Left RTOR




                                                                                             Peak Hour Data
                                               5
                               1032




                                                                                                                                                           Right Thru
                               Total




                                                       Left




                                                                                                                                                             109



                                                                                                                                                                        Out
                                                                                                                                                                         476




                                                                                                             North
                                                           325
                                               RTOR Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                        James St
                             James St




                                                                                                                                                                  640
                                 342
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                                           In




                                                                                             Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                                                                                                                                                            774
                                                        9




                                                                                                                                                           Left




                                                                                             Cars
                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                690




                                                                                             Heavy Vehicles and B
                               Out




                                                                                                                                                                        Total
                                                                                                                                                           RTOR



                                                                                                                                                                        1250
                                                  3




                                                                                                                                                             25




                                                                                              Left       Thru Right RTOR
                                                                                                     6       1    2    1


                                                                                                   14       10       24
                                                                                                 Out      In      Total
                                                                                             Driveway (Daybreak on James)
                               Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                                               126 N. Salina St.
                                                                                              Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                                               T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                                              www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                                                                     File Name       : 5_27_09_James_Dewitt_Both
                                                                                                                                     Site Code       : 00000009
                                                                                                                                     Start Date      : 5/27/2009
                                                                                                                                     Page No         :3
                                                                                                                          Driveway (Daybreak on
                         Dewitt St                                               James St                                                                           James St
                                                                                                                                  James)
                   Southbound Approach                                      Westbound Approach                                                                Eastbound Approach
                                                                                                                          Northbound Approach
               Rig Thr                                     Thr                                                                Thr                               Thr
 Start Time                 Left    RTOR  App. Total Right     Left                            RTOR     App. Total    Right        Left RTOR App. Total Right         Left RTOR App. Total           Int. Total
                ht      u                                    u                                                                  u                                 u
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
  04:30 PM       4      1     39      1       45       36   91   0                                2        129           2       0     3      1      6            3    170        8      0    181       361
  04:45 PM       4      0     41      0       45       23 103    0                                1        127           0       0     1      0      1            2    151        9      0    162       335
  05:00 PM       8       2    45      1       56       30   94   0                                6        130           0       0     4      0      4            1    194        19     0    214        404
  05:15 PM       8      0     44      4       56       37   87   1                                4        129           3       0     2      0      5            1    181        11     0    193      383
 Total Volume   24      3 169         6     202 126 375          1                               13        515           5       0    10      1     16            7    696        47     0    750     1483
 % App. Total   11.9    1.5   83.7          3                            24.5   72.8    0.2     2.5                   31.2      0    62.5    6.2             0.9       92.8     6.3       0
        PHF     .750   .375   .939       .375                     .902   .851   .910   .250    .542        .990       .417   .000    .625   .250   .667     .583       .897    .618    .000   .876      .918

                                                                                                          Dewitt St
                                                                                                 Out        In           Total
                                                                                                  173        202           375


                                                                                                  24     3            169    6
                                                                                               Right Thru            Left RTOR




                                                                                              Peak Hour Data
                                1159


                                                  47




                                                                                                                                                          Right Thru
                                Total




                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                            126



                                                                                                                                                                       Out
                                                                                                                                                                        870




                                                                                                            North
                                                            696
                                                RTOR Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                       James St
                              James St




                                                                                                                                                                 375
                                  750
                                  In




                                                                                                                                                                          In




                                                                                              Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                                                                                                                                           515
                                                         7




                                                                                                                                                          Left




                                                                                              Cars
                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                 409




                                                                                              Heavy Vehicles and B
                                Out




                                                                                                                                                                       Total
                                                                                                                                                          RTOR
                                                   0




                                                                                                                                                                       1385
                                                                                                                                                            13




                                                                                               Left Thru Right RTOR
                                                                                                 10     0    5    1


                                                                                                    11       16       27
                                                                                                  Out      In      Total
                                                                                              Driveway (Daybreak on James)
                            Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                        126 N. Salina St.
                                                                       Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                        T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                       www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                                 File Name       : 5_27_09_James_Dewitt_Both
                                                                                                 Site Code       : 00000009
                                                                                                 Start Date      : 5/27/2009
                                                                                                 Page No         :1


                                                               Groups Printed- Bicyclists and Pedes
                                                                                        Driveway (Daybreak on
                       Dewitt St                               James St                                                        James St
                                                                                                James)
                 Southbound Approach                    Westbound Approach                                               Eastbound Approach
                                                                                        Northbound Approach
Start Time Right Thru      Left Peds   App. Total   Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total   Int. Total
    Factor     1.0   1.0    1.0  1.0                 1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0           1.0    1.0   1.0  1.0           1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0
 07:00 AM        0     0      0    1          1        0     1     0     1      2      0      0     0    8      8      0     0     0     0      0          11
 07:15 AM        0     0      0    1          1        1     0     0     5      6      0      0     0    2      2      0     0     0     0      0           9
 07:30 AM        0     0      0    2          2        0     0     0     3      3      0      0     0    1      1      0     0     0     0      0           6
 07:45 AM        0     0      0    1          1        0     0     0     3      3      0      0     0    4      4      0     0     0     2      2          10
     Total       0     0      0    5          5        1     1     0    12     14      0      0     0  15      15      0     0     0     2      2          36

 08:00 AM       0     0      0    1           1        0     0     0     1       1     0     0     0     5       5     0     1     0      0      1          8
 08:15 AM       0     0      0    4           4        0     1     0     2       3     0     0     0     1       1     0     0     0      1      1          9
 08:30 AM       0     0      0    0           0        0     1     0     0       1     0     0     0     2       2     0     0     0      1      1          4
 08:45 AM       0     0      0    2           2        0     0     0     1       1     0     0     0     0       0     0     0     0      0      0          3
     Total      0     0      0    7           7        0     2     0     4       6     0     0     0     8       8     0     1     0      2      3         24

BREAK

 04:00 PM       0     0      0    1           1        0     1     0     0       1     0     0     0     1       1     0     0     0      0      0          3
 04:15 PM       0     0      0    1           1        0     0     0     2       2     0     0     0     2       2     0     0     0      0      0          5
 04:30 PM       0     0      0    0           0        0     1     0     2       3     0     0     0     0       0     0     1     0      0      1          4
 04:45 PM       0     0      2    1           3        0     1     0     3       4     0     0     0     1       1     0     0     0      0      0          8
     Total      0     0      2    3           5        0     3     0     7      10     0     0     0     4       4     0     1     0      0      1         20

 05:00 PM       0     0      0    4           4        0     0     0     0       0     0     0     0     0       0     0     1     0      3      4          8
 05:15 PM       0     0      0    1           1        0     0     0     0       0     0     0     0     1       1     0     1     0      0      1          3
 05:30 PM       0     0      0    0           0        1     0     0     0       1     0     0     0     4       4     0     1     0      2      3          8
 05:45 PM       0     0      0    0           0        0     0     0     1       1     0     0     0     0       0     0     0     0      1      1          2
     Total      0     0      0    5           5        1     0     0     1       2     0     0     0     5       5     0     3     0      6      9         21

 Grand Total    0     0      2  20          22         2    6      0   24       32     0     0     0  32        32     0    5      0   10       15       101
 Apprch %       0     0    9.1 90.9                  6.2 18.8      0   75              0     0     0 100               0 33.3      0 66.7
  Total %       0     0      2 19.8      21.8          2  5.9      0 23.8     31.7     0     0     0 31.7     31.7     0    5      0  9.9     14.9
                                 Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                              126 N. Salina St.
                                                             Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                              T: (315) 422-5716
                                                            www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                   File Name     : 6_2_09_James_Sedgwick_Both
                                                                                   Site Code     : 00791011
                                                                                   Start Date    : 6/2/2009
                                                                                   Page No       :1


                                                 Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles and B
                                   James St                        Sedgwick St                             James St
                              Westbound Approach              Northbound Approach                    Eastbound Approach
        Start Time       Thru     Left RTOR App. Total   Right      Left RTOR App. Total       Right     Thru RTOR App. Total   Int. Total
            Factor        1.0      1.0    1.0              1.0       1.0     1.0                 1.0      1.0     1.0
         07:00 AM          60        2      0      62        2         7       0          9      10        55        2    67         138
         07:15 AM          95        8      0     103        3       13        2         18      22        54        3    79         200
         07:30 AM         137      13       0     150        7       30        3         40      37        53        5    95         285
         07:45 AM         208      20       0     228        6       30        2         38      32        78        0   110         376
              Total       500      43       0     543       18       80        7        105     101       240       10   351         999

         08:00 AM         200       13      0       213       9       21       7        37       25      78       0      103         353
         08:15 AM         202        5      0       207       8       16       3        27       20      75       2       97         331
         08:30 AM         166        7      0       173       5       26       2        33       20      85       0      105         311
         08:45 AM         147        2      0       149       0       22       0        22       16      90       3      109         280
             Total        715       27      0       742      22       85      12       119       81     328       5      414        1275



         04:00 PM         110        9      0       119       4       18       2        24       35     179       3      217         360
         04:15 PM         105        1      0       106       3       24       1        28       21     143       0      164         298
         04:30 PM         118        4      0       122       9       19       2        30       36     171       3      210         362
         04:45 PM         121        8      0       129       4       25       2        31       26     193       2      221         381
             Total        454       22      0       476      20       86       7       113      118     686       8      812        1401

         05:00 PM         118        9      0       127       6       22       2        30       28     197       5      230         387
         05:15 PM         131        3      0       134       7       20       2        29       30     192       2      224         387
         05:30 PM         108        2      0       110       6       24       3        33       24     142       3      169         312
         05:45 PM         105        6      0       111       6       22       2        30       30     127       2      159         300
             Total        462       20      0       482      25       88       9       122      112     658      12      782        1386

      Grand Total        2131      112      0      2243      85     339      35        459      412    1912      35     2359        5061
       Apprch %            95         5     0               18.5    73.9     7.6                17.5   81.1     1.5
         Total %          42.1      2.2     0      44.3      1.7     6.7     0.7        9.1      8.1   37.8     0.7     46.6
            Cars         2091      110      0      2201      77     326      34        437      400    1869      31     2300        4938
          % Cars          98.1     98.2     0      98.1     90.6    96.2    97.1       95.2     97.1   97.8    88.6     97.5        97.6
Heavy Vehicles and B        40        2     0         42       8      13       1         22       12      43      4        59        123
% Heavy Vehicles and B     1.9      1.8     0        1.9     9.4     3.8     2.9        4.8      2.9     2.2   11.4       2.5         2.4
                          Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                               126 N. Salina St.
                                                              Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                               T: (315) 422-5716
                                                              www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                               File Name     : 6_2_09_James_Sedgwick_Both
                                                                                               Site Code     : 00791011
                                                                                               Start Date    : 6/2/2009
                                                                                               Page No       :2

                                    James St                           Sedgwick St                                  James St
                             Westbound Approach                   Northbound Approach                          Eastbound Approach
       Start Time       Thru       Left RTOR App. Total      Right     Left RTOR App. Total              Right     Thru RTOR App. Total          Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
        07:45 AM         208        20         0      228       6            30           2         38        32         78           0   110         376
        08:00 AM         200        13         0      213       9            21           7         37        25         78           0   103         353
        08:15 AM         202          5        0      207       8            16           3         27        20         75           2    97         331
        08:30 AM         166          7        0      173       5            26           2         33        20         85           0   105         311
     Total Volume        776        45         0      821      28            93          14        135        97        316           2   415        1371
     % App. Total       94.5        5.5        0             20.7          68.9        10.4                 23.4       76.1         0.5
              PHF       .933      .563      .000     .900    .778          .775        .500       .888      .758       .929        .250   .943        .912


                                                                Out           In       Total
                                                                      0            0       0




                                                             Peak Hour Data
                           1284
                           Total




                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                344
                                                316




                                                                                                                   Thru
                                    RTOR Right Thru




                                                                                                                    776




                                                                            North
                                                                                                                               James St
                         James St

                              415


                                            97
                             In




                                                                                                                   Left RTOR




                                                                                                                                  In




                                                              Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                                                                                                                   821
                                                                                                                     45




                                                              Cars
                                       2
                            869




                                                              Heavy Vehicles and B
                           Out




                                                                                                                               Total
                                                                                                                               1165
                                                                                                                           0




                                                                    Left Right RTOR
                                                                      93    28   14


                                                                 142           135      277
                                                                Out           In      Total
                                                                          Sedgwick St
                          Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                               126 N. Salina St.
                                                              Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                               T: (315) 422-5716
                                                              www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                               File Name     : 6_2_09_James_Sedgwick_Both
                                                                                               Site Code     : 00791011
                                                                                               Start Date    : 6/2/2009
                                                                                               Page No       :3
                                    James St                           Sedgwick St                                  James St
                             Westbound Approach                   Northbound Approach                          Eastbound Approach
       Start Time       Thru       Left RTOR App. Total      Right     Left RTOR App. Total              Right     Thru RTOR App. Total          Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
        04:30 PM         118          4        0      122       9            19            2        30        36        171           3   210         362
        04:45 PM         121          8        0      129       4            25            2        31        26        193           2   221         381
        05:00 PM         118          9        0      127       6            22            2        30        28        197           5   230         387
        05:15 PM         131          3        0      134       7            20            2        29        30        192           2   224         387
     Total Volume        488        24         0      512      26            86            8       120       120        753          12   885        1517
     % App. Total       95.3        4.7        0             21.7          71.7          6.7                13.6       85.1         1.4
              PHF       .931      .667      .000     .955    .722          .860        1.000      .968      .833       .956        .600   .962        .980


                                                                Out           In       Total
                                                                      0            0       0




                                                             Peak Hour Data
                           1459
                           Total




                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                779
                                                753
                                    RTOR Right Thru




                                                                                                                   Thru
                                                                                                                    488




                                                                            North
                                                                                                                               James St
                         James St

                              885


                                           120
                             In




                                                                                                                   Left RTOR




                                                                                                                                  In




                                                              Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                                                                                                   512
                                                                                                                     24




                                                              Cars
                                      12
                            574




                                                              Heavy Vehicles and B
                           Out




                                                                                                                               Total
                                                                                                                               1291
                                                                                                                           0




                                                                    Left Right RTOR
                                                                      86    26    8


                                                                 144           120      264
                                                                Out           In      Total
                                                                          Sedgwick St
                      Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                     126 N. Salina St.
                                                    Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                     T: (315) 422-5716
                                                   www.smctmpo.org

                                                                           File Name    : 6_2_09_James_Sedgwick_Both
                                                                           Site Code    : 00791011
                                                                           Start Date   : 6/2/2009
                                                                           Page No      :1


                                            Groups Printed- Bicyclists and Pedes
                         James St                         Sedgwick St                            James St
                    Westbound Approach               Northbound Approach                    Eastbound Approach
 Start Time    Thru     Left   Peds App. Total  Right      Left    Peds App. Total    Right     Thru   Peds App. Total   Int. Total
     Factor     1.0      1.0    1.0               1.0       1.0      1.0                1.0      1.0    1.0
  07:00 AM        1        0      1         2       0         0        2          2       0        1      4         5            9
  07:15 AM        1        0      0         1       0         2        1          3       0        1      4         5            9
  07:30 AM        0        0      0         0       0         0        3          3       1        0      0         1            4
  07:45 AM        0        0      2         2       0         0        3          3       0        0      0         0            5
       Total      2        0      3         5       0         2        9         11       1        2      8        11           27

  08:00 AM       0        0        0         0        0       0        0         0       0       2        0         2            2
  08:15 AM       0        0        0         0        0       0        0         0       0       0        1         1            1
  08:30 AM       0        0        0         0        1       0        1         2       0       0        0         0            2
  08:45 AM       2        1        0         3        0       0        1         1       0       0        0         0            4
      Total      2        1        0         3        1       0        2         3       0       2        1         3            9



  04:00 PM       0        0        3         3        0       1        1         2       0       2        1         3            8
  04:15 PM       0        0        0         0        0       0        0         0       0       1        1         2            2
  04:30 PM       1        0        0         1        0       0        3         3       0       0        0         0            4
  04:45 PM       0        0        2         2        0       1        1         2       0       1        0         1            5
      Total      1        0        5         6        0       2        5         7       0       4        2         6           19


  05:15 PM       0        0        0         0        0       0        3         3       0       1        0         1            4
  05:30 PM       0        0        0         0        0       0        1         1       0       1        0         1            2
  05:45 PM       0        2        0         2        0       0        0         0       0       0        0         0            2
      Total      0        2        0         2        0       0        4         4       0       2        0         2            8

Grand Total       5        3       8        16        1        4     20         25        1     10      11         22           63
 Apprch %      31.2     18.8     50                   4      16      80                 4.5    45.5     50
   Total %      7.9      4.8    12.7      25.4      1.6      6.3    31.7       39.7     1.6    15.9    17.5       34.9
                             Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                              126 N. Salina St.
                                                             Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                              T: (315) 422-5716
                                                             www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                      File Name        : 5_27_09_James_Wilson_Both
                                                                                      Site Code        : 00001212
                                                                                      Start Date       : 5/27/2009
                                                                                      Page No          :1


                                                     Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles
                                James St                             Wilson St                                James St
                           Westbound Approach                 Northbound Approach                       Eastbound Approach
 Start Time        Right   Thru   Left RTOR App. Total Right   Thru     Left RTOR App. Total   Right    Thru    Left RTOR    App. Total   Int. Total
        Factor       1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0            1.0     1.0     1.0    1.0              1.0      1.0    1.0   1.0
     07:00 AM          0     58      0      0     58       1       0       3      0        4       2       64      0     0         66          128
     07:15 AM          0     74      2      0     76       3       0       0      0        3       0       80      0     0         80          159
     07:30 AM          0    108      4      2    114       6       0       2      0        8       3       87      0     0         90          212
     07:45 AM          0    146      3      1    150      12       0       3      0       15       3     131       0     0        134          299
         Total         0    386      9      3    398      22       0       8      0       30       8     362       0     0        370          798

     08:00 AM         0     213      3      0      216      9      0      0       0       9       2      106     0      0         108          333
     08:15 AM         0     147      3      0      150      3      0      3       0       6       2       93     0      0          95          251
     08:30 AM         0     137      4      0      141      0      0      2       0       2       2       92     0      0          94          237
     08:45 AM         0     136      2      0      138      1      0      3       0       4       0       99     0      0          99          241
         Total        0     633     12      0      645     13      0      8       0      21       6      390     0      0         396         1062

**BREAK**

     04:00 PM         0     129      3      0      132      4      0      2       4      10       2      176     0      0         178          320
     04:15 PM         0     106      3      0      109      3      0      2       0       5       3      165     0      0         168          282
     04:30 PM         0     120      2      0      122      3      0      2       0       5       2      165     0      0         167          294
     04:45 PM         0     114      3      0      117      5      0      2       4      11       1      159     0      0         160          288
         Total        0     469     11      0      480     15      0      8       8      31       8      665     0      0         673         1184

     05:00 PM         0     127      4      0      131      5      0      0       4       9       2      188     0      1         191          331
     05:15 PM         0     127      4      0      131      5      0      2       4      11       2      196     0      0         198          340
     05:30 PM         0     115      3      0      118      5      0      4       3      12       0      141     0      0         141          271
     05:45 PM         0     102      4      0      106      2      0      1       2       5       1      123     0      0         124          235
         Total        0     471     15      0      486     17      0      7      13      37       5      648     0      1         654         1177

   Grand Total        0    1959     47       3    2009      67     0      31     21     119      27     2065     0      1        2093         4221
    Apprch %          0    97.5    2.3     0.1            56.3     0    26.1   17.6             1.3     98.7     0      0
      Total %         0    46.4    1.1     0.1    47.6     1.6     0     0.7    0.5      2.8    0.6     48.9     0      0        49.6
         Cars         0    1912     47       1    1960      66     0      30     21      117     27     2022     0      1        2050         4127
       % Cars         0    97.6    100    33.3    97.6    98.5     0    96.8    100     98.3    100     97.9     0    100        97.9         97.8
Heavy Vehicles        0      47      0       2      49       1     0       1      0        2      0       43     0      0          43           94
% Heavy Vehicles      0     2.4      0    66.7     2.4     1.5     0     3.2      0      1.7      0      2.1     0      0         2.1          2.2
                            Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                   126 N. Salina St.
                                                                  Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                   T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                  www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                                              File Name        : 5_27_09_James_Wilson_Both
                                                                                                              Site Code        : 00001212
                                                                                                              Start Date       : 5/27/2009
                                                                                                              Page No          :2

                                  James St                                   Wilson St                                               James St
                           Westbound Approach                          Northbound Approach                                      Eastbound Approach
                                             RTO
    Start Time Right        Thru      Left         App. Total Right      Thru                Left RTOR App. Total      Right    Thru          Left RTOR App. Total Int. Total
                                                R
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
     07:45 AM          0     146        3        1      150      12         0                    3        0      15       3      131             0           0   134     299
     08:00 AM          0     213        3        0      216       9         0                0            0       9        2     106             0           0   108     333
     08:15 AM          0     147        3        0      150       3         0                3            0       6        2      93             0           0    95     251
     08:30 AM          0     137        4        0      141       0         0                2            0       2        2      92             0           0    94     237
  Total Volume         0     643       13        1      657      24         0                8            0      32        9     422             0           0   431    1120
  % App. Total         0    97.9        2      0.2               75         0               25            0              2.1    97.9             0           0
           PHF      .000    .755     .813    .250      .760    .500      .000             .667         .000     .533   .750     .805          .000        .000   .804    .841


                                                                       Out              In           Total
                                                                                 0           0           0




                                                                 Peak Hour Data
                                      0
                              1082




                                                                                                                                 Right Thru
                              Total




                                              Left




                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                                446
                                                                                                                                     0




                                                                                       North
                                                  422
                                      RTOR Right Thru




                                                                                                                                               James St
                           James St




                                                                                                                                        643
                               431
                               In




                                                                                                                                                  In




                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                                                                                                                                   657
                                               9




                                                                                                                                 Left RTOR
                                                                                                                                   13




                                                                  Cars
                               651




                                                                  Heavy Vehicles
                              Out




                                                                                                                                               Total
                                                                                                                                               1103
                                         0




                                                                                                                                         1




                                                                      Left           Thru Right RTOR
                                                                             8           0   24    0


                                                                         22                32           54
                                                                       Out               In          Total
                                                                                     Wilson St
                            Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                   126 N. Salina St.
                                                                  Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                   T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                  www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                                                 File Name        : 5_27_09_James_Wilson_Both
                                                                                                                 Site Code        : 00001212
                                                                                                                 Start Date       : 5/27/2009
                                                                                                                 Page No          :3
                                  James St                                   Wilson St                                                  James St
                           Westbound Approach                          Northbound Approach                                         Eastbound Approach
                                             RTO
    Start Time Right        Thru      Left         App. Total Right      Thru                Left RTOR App. Total         Right    Thru          Left RTOR App. Total Int. Total
                                                R
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
     04:30 PM          0     120         2      0       122       3         0                    2           0       5       2      165             0          0    167     294
     04:45 PM          0     114         3      0       117       5         0                2               4      11       1      159             0          0    160     288
     05:00 PM          0     127         4      0       131       5         0                0            4          9       2      188             0          1    191     331
     05:15 PM          0     127         4      0       131       5         0                2            4         11       2      196             0           0   198     340
  Total Volume         0     488        13      0       501      18         0                6           12         36       7      708             0           1   716    1253
  % App. Total         0    97.4       2.6      0                50         0             16.7         33.3                  1     98.9             0         0.1
           PHF      .000    .961     .813    .000      .956    .900      .000             .750         .750        .818   .875     .903          .000        .250   .904    .921


                                                                       Out              In           Total
                                                                                 0           0           0




                                                                 Peak Hour Data
                              1210


                                      0




                                                                                                                                    Right Thru
                              Total




                                              Left




                                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                                                                                                                   726
                                                                                                                                        0




                                                                                       North
                                                  708
                                      RTOR Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                  James St
                           James St




                                                                                                                                           488
                                716
                               In




                                                                                                                                                     In




                                                                  Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                                                                                                                      501
                                               7




                                                                                                                                    Left RTOR
                                                                                                                                      13




                                                                  Cars
                               494




                                                                  Heavy Vehicles
                              Out




                                                                                                                                                  Total
                                         1




                                                                                                                                                  1227
                                                                                                                                            0




                                                                      Left           Thru Right RTOR
                                                                             6           0   18   12


                                                                         20                36           56
                                                                       Out               In          Total
                                                                                     Wilson St
                         Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                            126 N. Salina St.
                                                           Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                            T: (315) 422-5716
                                                           www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                     File Name         : 5_27_09_James_Wilson_Both
                                                                                     Site Code         : 00001212
                                                                                     Start Date        : 5/27/2009
                                                                                     Page No           :1


                                                     Groups Printed- Bicyclists and Pedes
                            James St                                Wilson St                                 James St
                       Westbound Approach                    Northbound Approach                        Eastbound Approach
Start Time     Right   Thru   Left Peds App. Total     Right   Thru     Left Peds App. Total   Right    Thru    Left Peds    App. Total   Int. Total
      Factor     1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0                1.0    1.0      1.0     1.0             1.0      1.0    1.0   1.0
   07:00 AM        0      1      0      1       2          0      0        0       3       3       0        0      0     0           0            5
   07:15 AM        0      0      0      6       6          0      0        0       1       1       0        0      0     0           0            7
   07:30 AM        0      0      0      8       8          0      0        0       5       5       0        0      0     0           0           13
   07:45 AM        0      0      0     12     12           0      0        1       1       2       0        0      0     0           0           14
       Total       0      1      0     27     28           0      0        1      10      11       0        0      0     0           0           39

   08:00 AM       0       0      0      3       3          0      0       0      2        2       0        1     0      0            1            6
   08:15 AM       0       1      0      2       3          0      0       0      1        1       0        0     0      0            0            4
   08:30 AM       0       1      0      0       1          0      0       0      2        2       0        0     0      0            0            3
   08:45 AM       0       1      0      0       1          0      0       0      1        1       0        1     0      0            1            3
       Total      0       3      0      5       8          0      0       0      6        6       0        2     0      0            2           16



   04:00 PM       0       2      0      0       2          0      0       0      1        1       0        0     0      0            0            3
   04:15 PM       0       0      0      4       4          0      0       0      6        6       0        0     0      0            0           10
   04:30 PM       0       0      2      0       2          0      0       0      0        0       0        0     0      0            0            2
   04:45 PM       0       2      0      0       2          0      0       0      1        1       0        1     0      0            1            4
       Total      0       4      2      4      10          0      0       0      8        8       0        1     0      0            1           19

   05:00 PM       0       1      0      0       1          0      0       0      3        3       0        2     0      0            2            6
   05:15 PM       0       0      0      0       0          0      0       0      1        1       0        2     0      0            2            3
   05:30 PM       0       3      0      0       3          0      0       0      3        3       0        2     0      0            2            8
   05:45 PM       0       0      0      0       0          0      0       0      2        2       0        1     0      0            1            3
       Total      0       4      0      0       4          0      0       0      9        9       0        7     0      0            7           20

 Grand Total      0       12     2     36      50          0      0       1     33       34       0       10     0      0           10           94
  Apprch %        0       24     4     72                  0      0     2.9   97.1                0      100     0      0
    Total %       0     12.8   2.1   38.3     53.2         0      0     1.1   35.1      36.2      0     10.6     0      0        10.6
                                 Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                       126 N. Salina St.
                                                                      Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                       T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                      www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                                 File Name        : 5_27_09_James_Teall_Both
                                                                                                 Site Code        : 00000845
                                                                                                 Start Date       : 5/27/2009
                                                                                                 Page No          :1


                                                     Groups Printed- Cars - Heavy Vehicles and B
                          Teall Ave                       James St                        Teall Ave                       James St
                   Southbound Approach             Westbound Approach              Northbound Approach              Eastbound Approach
Start Time     Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total    Int. Total
     Factor     1.0   1.0    1.0   1.0          1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0           1.0   1.0    1.0   1.0          1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0
  07:00 AM       16    52      1     1    70      0    39    12     0     51     13    40     10     3    66     10    36     6     5     57        244
  07:15 AM       19    75      1     0    95      2    46    13     0     61     14    41     22     8    85     20    40    20     9     89        330
  07:30 AM       27    97      3     2 129        5    62    17     2     86     18    48     19     4    89     20    48    15     7     90        394
  07:45 AM       30 103        1     0 134        4    91    19     2  116       27    81     36     3 147       25    75    26     7  133          530
      Total      92 327        6     3 428       11 238      61     4  314       72 210       87    18 387       75 199      67    28  369         1498

  08:00 AM       42      91       2     1    136     3    102   18      0   123     28     69    41    3   141      18    58   23     4    103      503
  08:15 AM       36      88       2     0    126     1     93   17      0   111     14     71    21    1   107      17    46   20     6     89      433
  08:30 AM       33      90       1     3    127     2     87   14      1   104      8     74    24    2   108      16    60   16     4     96      435
  08:45 AM       33     106       1     0    140     5     81   20      0   106     17     65    25    1   108      20    55   10    10     95      449
      Total     144     375       6     4    529    11    363   69      1   444     67    279   111    7   464      71   219   69    24    383     1820

BREAK

  04:00 PM       35      81       3     0    119     6     70    34     0   110     24    112   31     4   171      28   103    41    7    179      579
  04:15 PM       35      87       5     0    127     2     59    22     0    83     21    103   13     3   140      27   108    25    9    169      519
  04:30 PM       18     113       6     1    138     0     65    33     0    98     26     84   29     1   140      24    86    48    7    165      541
  04:45 PM       30      98       5     0    133     1     69    24     0    94     20    115   22     1   158      21    95    35    4    155      540
      Total     118     379      19     1    517     9    263   113     0   385     91    414   95     9   609     100   392   149   27    668     2179

  05:00 PM       29     113       4     1    147     3     82   24      0   109     18    102    26    4   150      33    88    45    4    170      576
  05:15 PM       23     113       6     0    142     4     78   23      1   106     20     97    27    7   151      49   111    50    8    218      617
  05:30 PM       26      97       3     0    126     6     66   23      1    96     23     88    18    4   133      27    82    28   10    147      502
  05:45 PM       15      82       5     1    103     6     65   22      1    94     22     92    32    3   149      14    81    22    5    122      468
      Total      93     405      18     2    518    19    291   92      3   405     83    379   103   18   583     123   362   145   27    657     2163

 Grand Total            447 1486  49    10   1992    50   1155 335      8   1548    313   1282 396   52    2043    369   1172 430    106   2077    7660
  Apprch % 22.4 74.6             2.5   0.5          3.2   74.6 21.6   0.5          15.3   62.8 19.4  2.5          17.8   56.4 20.7   5.1
      Total %           5.8 19.4 0.6   0.1     26   0.7   15.1  4.4   0.1   20.2    4.1   16.7  5.2  0.7   26.7    4.8   15.3  5.6   1.4   27.1
            Cars 440 1438         46    10   1934    49   1119 315      8   1491    292   1260 391   51    1994    361   1143 422    106   2032    7451
       % Cars 98.4 96.8 93.9           100   97.1    98   96.9   94   100   96.3   93.3   98.3 98.7 98.1   97.6   97.8   97.5 98.1   100   97.8    97.3
 Heavy Vehicles and B     7   48   3     0     58     1     36   20     0     57     21     22    5    1     49      8     29    8     0     45     209
 % Heavy Vehicles and B 1.6  3.2 6.1     0    2.9     2    3.1    6     0    3.7    6.7    1.7  1.3  1.9    2.4    2.2    2.5  1.9     0    2.2     2.7
                              Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                                              126 N. Salina St.
                                                                                             Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                                              T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                                             www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                                                                      File Name          : 5_27_09_James_Teall_Both
                                                                                                                                      Site Code          : 00000845
                                                                                                                                      Start Date         : 5/27/2009
                                                                                                                                      Page No            :2

                          Teall Ave                        James St                    Teall Ave                       James St
                 Southbound Approach                 Westbound Approach         Northbound Approach              Eastbound Approach
 Start Time Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total                                                        Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 08:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:45 AM
  07:45 AM     30 103          1     0      134     4   91    19    2   116   27    81    36     3  147       25    75    26     7  133                                                                530
  08:00 AM     42      91      2     1      136     3 102     18    0   123   28    69    41     3  141       18    58    23     4  103                                                              503
  08:15 AM     36      88      2     0      126     1   93    17    0   111   14    71    21     1  107       17    46    20     6     89                                                            433
  08:30 AM     33      90      1     3      127     2   87    14    1   104    8    74    24     2  108       16    60    16     4     96                                                            435
 Total Volume 141 372          6     4      523    10 373     68    3   454   77 295 122         9  503       76 239      85    21  421                                                             1901
% App. Total     27   71.1     1.1       0.8                             2.2   82.2     15     0.7              15.3         58.6   24.3    1.8            18.1       56.8    20.2      5
       PHF     .839   .903   .750       .333                     .961   .625   .914   .895    .375     .923     .688         .910   .744   .750   .855     .760       .797    .817   .750   .791      .897

                                                                                                      Teall Ave
                                                                                               Out       In              Total
                                                                                                390       523              913


                                                                                               141  372              6      4
                                                                                             Right Thru       Left       RTOR




                                                                                             Peak Hour Data
                                1057


                                                 85




                                                                                                                                                         Right Thru
                                Total




                                               Left




                                                                                                                                                                      Out
                                                                                                                                                            10


                                                                                                                                                                       322



                                                                                                        North
                                                           239
                                               RTOR Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                      James St
                             James St




                                                                                                                                                                373
                                  421
                                 In




                                                                                                                                                                         In




                                                                                             Peak Hour Begins at 07:45 AM
                                                                                                                                                                          454
                                                       76




                                                                                                                                                         Left RTOR
                                                                                                                                                           68




                                                                                             Cars
                                 636




                                                                                             Heavy Vehicles and B
                                Out




                                                                                                                                                                      Total
                                                 21




                                                                                                                                                                       776
                                                                                                                                                                 3




                                                                                              Left Thru Right RTOR
                                                                                               122  295    77    9


                                                                                                516       503             1019
                                                                                               Out       In              Total
                                                                                                      Teall Ave
                               Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                                               126 N. Salina St.
                                                                                              Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                                               T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                                              www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                                                                  File Name          : 5_27_09_James_Teall_Both
                                                                                                                                  Site Code          : 00000845
                                                                                                                                  Start Date         : 5/27/2009
                                                                                                                                  Page No            :3
                          Teall Ave                            James St                          Teall Ave                          James St
                 Southbound Approach                     Westbound Approach               Northbound Approach                 Eastbound Approach
               Rig Thr                                     Thr                               Thr                                Thr
 Start Time                 Left    RTOR  App. Total Right       Left RTOR App. Total Right        Left RTOR App. Total Right         Left RTOR App. Total                                     Int. Total
                ht      u                                    u                                 u                                  u
Peak Hour Analysis From 04:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
  04:30 PM      18 113         6      1     138         0   65    33     0       98     26    84    29      1   140       24     86    48     7    165                                            541
  04:45 PM      30     98      5      0     133         1   69    24     0       94     20 115      22      1   158       21     95    35     4    155                                            540
  05:00 PM      29 113         4      1     147         3   82    24     0    109       18 102      26      4   150       33     88    45     4    170                                            576
  05:15 PM      23 113         6      0     142         4   78    23     1    106       20    97    27      7   151       49 111       50     8    218                                             617
 Total Volume 100 437         21      2     560         8 294 104        1    407       84 398 104         13   599 127 380 178              23    708                                          2274
 % App. Total   17.9     78     3.8       0.4                               2   72.2   25.6     0.2                14    66.4   17.4    2.2            17.9       53.7    25.1    3.2
        PHF     .833   .967   .875       .500                     .952   .500   .896   .788    .250     .933     .808    .865   .897   .464   .948     .648       .856    .890   .719   .812      .921

                                                                                                       Teall Ave
                                                                                                Out       In         Total
                                                                                                 584       560        1144


                                                                                                100  437         21    2
                                                                                              Right Thru       Left RTOR




                                                                                              Peak Hour Data
                                 1206


                                                 178




                                                                                                                                                     Right Thru
                                 Total




                                                Left




                                                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                                                                                                                                   485
                                                                                                                                                         8




                                                                                                         North
                                                            380
                                                RTOR Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                  James St
                              James St




                                                                                                                                                            294
                                   708
                                  In




                                                                                                                                                                     In
                                                                                                                                                                      407




                                                                                              Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                       127




                                                                                                                                                     Left RTOR
                                                                                                                                                      104




                                                                                              Cars
                                  498




                                                                                              Heavy Vehicles and B
                                 Out




                                                                                                                                                                  Total
                                                  23




                                                                                                                                                                   892
                                                                                                                                                             1




                                                                                               Left Thru Right RTOR
                                                                                                104  398    84   13


                                                                                                 668       599        1267
                                                                                                Out       In         Total
                                                                                                       Teall Ave
                            Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                  126 N. Salina St.
                                                                 Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                  T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                 www.smctmpo.org

                                                                                             File Name         : 5_27_09_James_Teall_Both
                                                                                             Site Code         : 00000845
                                                                                             Start Date        : 5/27/2009
                                                                                             Page No           :1


                                                         Groups Printed- Bicyclists and Pedes
                         Teall Ave                       James St                        Teall Ave                       James St
                  Southbound Approach             Westbound Approach              Northbound Approach              Eastbound Approach
Start Time    Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total   Int. Total
    Factor     1.0   1.0    1.0   1.0          1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0           1.0   1.0    1.0   1.0          1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0
 07:00 AM        0     0      0     1     1      0     1     0     0      1      0     0      0     2     2      0     0     0     2      2           6
 07:15 AM        0     0      0     0     0      0     0     0     0      0      0     0      0     2     2      0     0     0     0      0           2
 07:30 AM        0     0      0     2     2      0     0     0     2      2      0     0      0     1     1      0     1     0     0      1           6
 07:45 AM        0     0      0     2     2      0     0     0     0      0      0     0      0     2     2      0     0     0     1      1           5
     Total       0     0      0     5     5      0     1     0     2      3      0     0      0     7     7      0     1     0     3      4          19

 08:00 AM        0     0     0     0       0     0     0     0     3       3     0     0     0     0       0     0     0      1     0      1          4
 08:15 AM        0     0     0     2       2     0     1     0     0       1     0     0     0     0       0     0     0      0     2      2          5
 08:30 AM        0     0     0     0       0     0     0     0     0       0     0     0     0     2       2     0     0      0     0      0          2
 08:45 AM        0     0     0     1       1     0     0     0     1       1     0     0     0     0       0     0     0      0     2      2          4
     Total       0     0     0     3       3     0     1     0     4       5     0     0     0     2       2     0     0      1     4      5         15



 04:00 PM        0     0     0     2       2     0     0     0     1       1     0     2     0     0       2     0     0      0     2      2            7
 04:15 PM        0     0     0     0       0     0     0     0     0       0     0     0     0     1       1     0     0      0     0      0            1

 04:45 PM        0     0     0     2       2     0     1     0     0       1     0     0     0     0       0     0     0      0     0      0          3
     Total       0     0     0     4       4     0     1     0     1       2     0     2     0     1       3     0     0      0     2      2         11

 05:00 PM        0     0     0     0       0     0     0     0     1       1     0     0     0     0       0     0     1      0     1      2            3
 05:15 PM        0     0     0     5       5     0     0     0     0       0     0     0     0     0       0     0     0      0     0      0            5

 05:45 PM        0     0     0     1       1     0     0     0     2       2     0     0     0     0       0     0     0      0     1      1          4
     Total       0     0     0     6       6     0     0     0     3       3     0     0     0     0       0     0     1      0     2      3         12

Grand Total      0     0     0  18        18     0    3      0   10       13     0    2      0  10        12     0    2       1   11      14         57
 Apprch %        0     0     0 100               0 23.1      0 76.9              0 16.7      0 83.3              0 14.3     7.1 78.6
  Total %        0     0     0 31.6     31.6     0  5.3      0 17.5     22.8     0  3.5      0 17.5     21.1     0  3.5     1.8 19.3    24.6
                                    Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                          126 N. Salina St.
                                                                         Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                          T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                         www.smctmpo.org

City of Syracuse                                                                                   File Name        : James_Shotwell_Re_merge
James and Shotwell Streets                                                                         Site Code        : 00791011
6/4/09                                                                                             Start Date       : 6/4/2009
PM count done on 6/3/09                                                                            Page No          :1


                                                            Groups Printed- Cars - HeavyVehicles & Buses

               Southbound Approach             Westbound Approach              Northbound Approach              Eastbound Approach
Start Time Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total           Int. Total
 07:00 AM               8     2     22    3     35     22     29    2      1    54      8    2     0    4     14      2     51     3     0     56      159
 07:15 AM               8     9     54    2     73     36     51    2      1    90      5    1     6    2     14      5     52     6     1     64      241
 07:30 AM              11     5     49    4     69     44     77    4      0   125     12    7     3    4     26      5     70     6     2     83      303
 07:45 AM              16    11     59    8     94     65    110    4      0   179     17    7    11    3     38      6     93    12     4    115      426
     Total             43    27    184   17    271    167    267   12      2   448     42   17    20   13     92     18    266    27     7    318     1129

 08:00 AM              16    15     47    4     82     44     99    2      0   145     11    5     6    2     24      6     75     6     2     89      340
 08:15 AM              14     5     41    3     63     48     91    0      0   139     10    3    11    2     26      6     72     9     2     89      317
 08:30 AM              12     5     51    4     72     58     68    2      0   128      3    5     9    2     19      7     63     3     2     75      294
 08:45 AM               7     7     60    2     76     48     95    1      0   144      8    3     5    4     20      8     74     2     4     88      328
     Total             49    32    199   13    293    198    353    5      0   556     32   16    31   10     89     27    284    20    10    341     1279



 04:00 PM              13    17     65    0     95    104     87    1      0   192     11    1     4    4     20      8     85    18     2    113      420
 04:15 PM              13    23     74    5    115     80     96    2      0   178      9    4    10    1     24     10     90     7     3    110      427
 04:30 PM              29    11     79    3    122     73    103    0      0   176     12    0    10    4     26     15     74    13     7    109      433
 04:45 PM              19    19     69    5    112     74    102    5      0   181     14    3    10    1     28     16     92    10     5    123      444
     Total             74    70    287   13    444    331    388    8      0   727     46    8    34   10     98     49    341    48    17    455     1724

 05:00 PM              22    18     57    7    104     91    104    1      0   196      3   15    11    1     30     10     80    13     7    110      440
 05:15 PM              10    12     69    4     95     84     86    6      0   176      7   13     9    1     30     11    100     9     7    127      428
 05:30 PM              16    15     71    2    104     84     86    2      1   173      5    4    14    0     23      7     95    17     1    120      420
 05:45 PM              13    18     59    5     95     88     78    4      1   171      4    5     7    1     17     17     84     6     3    110      393
     Total             61    63    256   18    398    347    354   13      2   716     19   37    41    3    100     45    359    45    18    467     1681

 Grand Total           227 192 926        61   1406 1043    1362   38      4   2447    139   78 126     36   379     139   1250  140     52   1581    5813
  Apprch % 16.1 13.7 65.9                4.3        42.6    55.7  1.6    0.2          36.7 20.6 33.2   9.5           8.8   79.1  8.9    3.3
      Total %          3.9 3.3 15.9        1   24.2 17.9    23.4  0.7    0.1   42.1    2.4  1.3  2.2   0.6    6.5    2.4   21.5  2.4    0.9   27.2
            Cars 220 186 915              61   1382 1038    1329   37      4   2408    139   78 112     36    365    128   1215 136      52   1531    5686
      % Cars 96.9 96.9 98.8              100   98.3 99.5    97.6 97.4    100   98.4    100 100 88.9    100   96.3   92.1   97.2 97.1    100   96.8    97.8
 HeavyVehicles & Buses   7   6   11        0     24    5      33    1      0     39      0    0   14     0     14     11     35    4      0     50     127
   % HeavyVehicles &
                       3.1   3.1   1.2    0     1.7   0.5    2.4   2.6     0    1.6     0    0 11.1     0     3.7    7.9    2.8   2.9    0     3.2       2.2
              Buses
                              Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                                             126 N. Salina St.
                                                                                            Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                                             T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                                            www.smctmpo.org

City of Syracuse                                                                                                               File Name          : James_Shotwell_Re_merge
James and Shotwell Streets                                                                                                     Site Code          : 00791011
6/4/09                                                                                                                         Start Date         : 6/4/2009
PM count done on 6/3/09                                                                                                        Page No            :2



                 Southbound Approach                 Westbound Approach         Northbound Approach              Eastbound Approach
 Start Time Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total Right Thru Left RTOR App. Total                                                 Int. Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 AM to 11:45 AM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 07:30 AM
  07:30 AM     11       5     49     4       69    44   77    4    0    125   12     7    3    4       26      5    70    6    2       83                                                      303
  07:45 AM     16      11     59     8       94    65 110     4    0    179   17     7   11    3       38      6    93   12    4    115                                                         426
  08:00 AM     16      15     47     4       82    44   99    2    0    145   11     5    6    2       24      6    75    6    2       89                                                     340
  08:15 AM     14       5     41     3       63    48   91    0    0    139   10     3   11    2       26      6    72    9    2       89                                                     317
 Total Volume  57      36 196       19      308 201 377      10    0    588   50    22   31   11    114       23 310     33   10    376                                                      1386
% App. Total   18.5   11.7   63.6       6.2                            34.2   64.1    1.7       0              43.9   19.3   27.2    9.6             6.1       82.4     8.8    2.7
       PHF     .891   .600   .831      .594                     .819   .773   .857   .625    .000     .821     .735   .786   .705   .688   .750     .958       .833    .688   .625   .817      .813



                                                                                              Out       In       Total
                                                                                               256       308       564


                                                                                               57   36        196   19
                                                                                            Right Thru       Left RTOR




                                                                                            Peak Hour Data
                                841


                                                33




                                                                                                                                                  Right Thru
                               Total




                                              Left




                                                                                                                                                    201



                                                                                                                                                               Out
                                                                                                                                                                556



                                                                                                       North
                                                          310
                                              RTOR Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                         377
                                376
                               In




                                                                                                                                                               In




                                                                                            Peak Hour Begins at 07:30 AM
                                                                                                                                                                588
                                                      23




                                                                                                                                                  Left RTOR
                                                                                                                                                    10




                                                                                            Cars
                                465




                                                                                            HeavyVehicles & Buses
                               Out




                                                                                                                                                               Total
                                                10




                                                                                                                                                               1144
                                                                                                                                                          0




                                                                                             Left Thru Right RTOR
                                                                                               31   22    50   11


                                                                                                69       114       183
                                                                                              Out       In       Total
                               Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                                              126 N. Salina St.
                                                                                             Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                                              T: (315) 422-5716
                                                                                             www.smctmpo.org

City of Syracuse                                                                                                                File Name          : James_Shotwell_Re_merge
James and Shotwell Streets                                                                                                      Site Code          : 00791011
6/4/09                                                                                                                          Start Date         : 6/4/2009
PM count done on 6/3/09                                                                                                         Page No            :3


                 Southbound Approach                     Westbound Approach              Northbound Approach                Eastbound Approach
               Rig Thr                                     Thr                              Thr                               Thr
 Start Time                 Left    RTOR  App. Total Right      Left RTOR App. Total Right       Left RTOR App. Total Right        Left RTOR App. Total                                      Int. Total
                ht      u                                    u                                u                                 u
Peak Hour Analysis From 12:00 PM to 05:45 PM - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 04:30 PM
  04:30 PM      29     11     79      3     122        73 103     0     0    176       12     0   10     4       26     15     74   13     7    109                                             433
  04:45 PM      19     19     69      5     112        74 102     5     0    181       14     3   10     1       28     16     92   10     5    123                                              444
  05:00 PM      22     18     57      7     104        91 104     1     0    196        3    15   11     1       30     10     80   13     7    110                                            440
  05:15 PM      10     12     69      4       95       84   86    6     0    176        7    13    9     1       30     11 100       9     7    127                                            428
 Total Volume   80     60 274        19     433 322 395          12     0    729       36    31   40     7    114       52 346      45    26    469                                           1745
 % App. Total   18.5   13.9   63.3       4.4                            44.2   54.2    1.6       0              31.6   27.2   35.1    6.1            11.1       73.8     9.6    5.5
        PHF     .690   .789   .867      .679                     .887   .885   .950   .500    .000     .930     .643   .517   .909   .438   .950     .813       .865    .865   .929   .923      .983



                                                                                               Out       In       Total
                                                                                                398       433       831


                                                                                                80   60        274   19
                                                                                             Right Thru       Left RTOR




                                                                                             Peak Hour Data
                                 984


                                                 45




                                                                                                                                                   Right Thru
                                Total




                                               Left




                                                                                                                                                     322



                                                                                                                                                                Out
                                                                                                                                                                 656


                                                                                                       North
                                                           346
                                               RTOR Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                          395
                                 469
                                In




                                                                                                                                                                In




                                                                                             Peak Hour Begins at 04:30 PM
                                                                                                                                                                 729
                                                       52




                                                                                                                                                   Left RTOR
                                                                                                                                                     12




                                                                                             Cars
                                 515




                                                                                             HeavyVehicles & Buses
                                Out




                                                                                                                                                                Total
                                                 26




                                                                                                                                                                1385
                                                                                                                                                           0




                                                                                              Left Thru Right RTOR
                                                                                                40   31    36    7


                                                                                                124       114       238
                                                                                               Out       In       Total
                          Syracuse Metropolitan Transportation Council
                                                                126 N. Salina St.
                                                               Syracuse, NY 13202
                                                                T: (315) 422-5716
                                                               www.smctmpo.org

City of Syracuse                                                                           File Name         : James_Shotwell_Re_merge
James and Shotwell Streets                                                                 Site Code         : 00791011
6/4/09                                                                                     Start Date        : 6/4/2009
PM count done on 6/3/09                                                                    Page No           :1


                                                           Groups Printed- Bikes_Peds

               Southbound Approach             Westbound Approach              Northbound Approach              Eastbound Approach
Start Time Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total Right Thru Left Peds App. Total   Int. Total
 07:00 AM       0    0     0     0       0     0     0     0     0      0      0     0     0     1      1      0     0     0     0      0          1
 07:15 AM       0    0     0     0       0     0     0     0     0      0      0     0     0     3      3      0     1     0     2      3          6
 07:30 AM       0    0     0     1       1     0     0     0     0      0      0     0     0     1      1      0     1     0     3      4          6
 07:45 AM       0    0     0     0       0     0     0     0     1      1      0     0     0     1      1      0     2     0     0      2          4
     Total      0    0     0     1       1     0     0     0     1      1      0     0     0     6      6      0     4     0     5      9         17

 08:00 AM       0    0     1     2       3     0     0     0     0      0      0     0     0     0      0      0     1     0     0      1          4
 08:15 AM       0    0     0     1       1     0     0     0     0      0      0     0     0     1      1      0     0     0     0      0          2
 08:30 AM       0    0     0     1       1     0     0     0     0      0      0     0     0     0      0      0     0     0     2      2          3
 08:45 AM       0    0     0     1       1     0     0     0     0      0      0     0     0     0      0      0     0     0     0      0          1
     Total      0    0     1     5       6     0     0     0     0      0      0     0     0     1      1      0     1     0     2      3         10



 04:15 PM       0    0     0     3       3     0     2     0     0      2      0     0     0     0      0      0     0     0     3      3          8
 04:30 PM       1    0     0     0       1     0     1     0     1      2      0     0     0     1      1      0     0     0     5      5          9
 04:45 PM       0    0     0     0       0     0     2     0     0      2      0     0     0     4      4      0     1     0     2      3          9
     Total      1    0     0     3       4     0     5     0     1      6      0     0     0     5      5      0     1     0    10     11         26

 05:00 PM       0    0     5     0      5      0     0     1     2      3      0     0     0     2      2      0     0     0     1      1         11
 05:15 PM       0    0     0     3      3      0     1     0     0      1      0     0     0     5      5      0     0     0     5      5         14
 05:30 PM       0    0     0     1      1      0     0     0     0      0      0     0     0     0      0      0     3     0     3      6          7
 05:45 PM       0    0     0     3      3      0     4     0     0      4      0     0     0     2      2      0     0     0     0      0          9
     Total      0    0     5     7     12      0     5     1     2      8      0     0     0     9      9      0     3     0     9     12         41

 Grand Total     1   0    6  16        23      0   10      1    4      15      0     0     0  21       21      0    9      0   26      35         94
 Apprch %      4.3   0 26.1 69.6               0 66.7    6.7 26.7              0     0     0 100               0 25.7      0 74.3
  Total %      1.1   0  6.4  17       24.5     0 10.6    1.1  4.3      16      0     0     0 22.3     22.3     0  9.6      0 27.7     37.2
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
1: JAMES ST & OSWEGO BLVD                                                                                                   10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL        WBT     WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    10      459      172       74        387       5      138        1       6        0        0       0
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900      1900     1900      1900     1900     1900    1900     1900     1900     1900    1900
Lane Util. Factor             0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95       0.95    0.95     0.95     0.95    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                        0.99                         1.00                      1.00
Frt                                   0.960                        0.998                     0.987
Flt Protected                         0.999                        0.992            0.950    0.957
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0   3367          0          0   3503        0    1681     1666        0        0     1863       0
Flt Permitted                         0.947                        0.765            0.950    0.950
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0   3192         0           0   2699        0    1681     1654        0        0     1863       0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                         Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                        81                            2                         6
Link Speed (mph)                         30                          30                         30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      170                         537                        242                       134
Travel Time (s)                         3.9                         12.2                       5.5                       3.0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)               2                16         16               2       12               19       19               12
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                          3                         1
Peak Hour Factor               0.89     0.89     0.89    0.89       0.89    0.89     0.89     0.89    0.89     0.89     0.89     0.89
Adj. Flow (vph)                  11      516      193      83        435       6      155        1       7        0        0        0
Shared Lane Traffic (%)                                                              47%
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      720         0       0        524        0      82       81        0       0        0       0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No       No       No         No      No       No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left    Right     Left       Left   Right     Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                         12                           12                        12                        12
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                         0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                        16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turning Speed (mph)              15                 9      15                  9       15                9       15                 9
Turn Type                     Perm                      Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                           1                           1                         2                         3
Permitted Phases                  1                            1                        2                         3
Detector Phase                    1        1                   1       1                2        2                3        3
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              37.0     37.0              37.0       37.0             25.0     25.0             18.0     18.0
Total Split (s)                37.0     37.0      0.0     37.0       37.0     0.0     25.0     25.0     0.0     18.0     18.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              46.3%    46.3%     0.0%    46.3%      46.3%    0.0%    31.3%    31.3%    0.0%    22.5%    22.5%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              32.0     32.0              32.0       32.0             20.0     20.0             13.0     13.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0        1.0              1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                      Lead     Lead              Lead       Lead               Lag      Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                  3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                C-Max C-Max                  Max      Max             None     None
Walk Time (s)                   7.0   7.0                  7.0   7.0                  7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            15.0  15.0                 15.0  15.0                 12.0     12.0

James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                Page 1
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
1: JAMES ST & OSWEGO BLVD                                                                                            10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR         NBL    NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)          5         5               5         5                    5      5
Act Effct Green (s)                     52.0                      52.0                 22.0   22.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.65                      0.65                 0.28   0.28
v/c Ratio                               0.34                      0.30                 0.18   0.18
Control Delay                            6.0                       4.9                 23.4   21.8
Queue Delay                              0.0                       0.0                  0.0    0.0
Total Delay                              6.0                       4.9                 23.4   21.8
LOS                                        A                         A                    C      C
Approach Delay                           6.0                       4.9                        22.6
Approach LOS                               A                         A                           C
Queue Length 50th (ft)                    43                        21                  22      20
Queue Length 95th (ft)                    61                        27                  46      44
Internal Link Dist (ft)                   90                       457                         162                  54
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                    2103                       1755                 462    459
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0                          0                    0      0
Spillback Cap Reductn                     0                          0                    0      0
Storage Cap Reductn                       0                          0                    0      0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.34                       0.30                 0.18   0.18
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 70 (88%), Referenced to phase 1:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.34
Intersection Signal Delay: 7.5                                Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 63.1%                       ICU Level of Service B
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   1: JAMES ST & OSWEGO BLVD




James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                  Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                           Page 2
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
2: JAMES ST & STATE ST                                                                                                       10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL        WBT      WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    65      354       46      133        419      141        29     164      33      102      299      18
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900     1900     1900     1900       1900    1900      1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)            150                 0        0                 150       120               0       120               0
Storage Lanes                    1                 0        0                   1         1               0         1               0
Taper Length (ft)               25                25       25                  25        25              25        25              25
Lane Util. Factor             1.00     0.95     0.95     0.95       0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95    0.95     1.00     0.95    0.95
Ped Bike Factor               1.00     0.99                         1.00     0.98      0.99    1.00              0.99    1.00
Frt                                   0.983                                 0.850             0.975                     0.991
Flt Protected                 0.950                                0.988             0.950                     0.950
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770     3461         0          0   3497      1583    1770      3439       0    1770      3501       0
Flt Permitted                 0.425                                0.655             0.545                     0.537
Satd. Flow (perm)               789    3461        0           0   2311      1556    1003      3439       0      993     3501       0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                          Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                        17                                   153                31                        11
Link Speed (mph)                         30                          30                          30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      537                         777                         389                       292
Travel Time (s)                         12.2                        17.7                        8.8                       6.6
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)               6                23         23                6       14                8        8               14
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                           3
Peak Hour Factor               0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92       0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                  71      385       50     145        455      153       32      178      36      111      325       20
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)           71      435         0       0        600     153        32      214        0     111      345        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No       No       No         No      No        No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left    Right     Left       Left   Right      Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                         12                           12                         12                        12
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                          0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                         16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                      pm+pt               Perm     Perm                      pm+pt
Protected Phases                           2                1          6                          4                3        8
Permitted Phases                  2                         6                   6        4                         8
Detector Phase                    2        2                1          6        6        4        4                3        8
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              24.0     24.0              14.0       38.0     38.0     28.0     28.0             14.0     42.0
Total Split (s)                24.0     24.0      0.0     14.0       38.0     38.0     28.0     28.0     0.0     14.0     42.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              30.0%    30.0%     0.0%    17.5%      47.5%    47.5%    35.0%    35.0%    0.0%    17.5%    52.5%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              19.0     19.0               9.0       33.0     33.0     23.0     23.0              9.0     37.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0        1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                       Lag      Lag              Lead                           Lag      Lag            Lead
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                  3.0   3.0   3.0             3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                  Max C-Max C-Max             Max      Max              Max      Max

James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                 Page 3
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
2: JAMES ST & STATE ST                                                                                              10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL    WBT      WBR         NBL    NBT    NBR   SBL     SBT     SBR
Walk Time (s)                   7.0      7.0                                                                      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            10.0     10.0                                                                     10.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5        5                                                                        5
Act Effct Green (s)            21.0     21.0                     35.0    35.0        25.0   25.0         39.0    39.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.26     0.26                     0.44    0.44        0.31   0.31         0.49    0.49
v/c Ratio                      0.34     0.47                     0.51    0.20        0.10   0.20         0.19    0.20
Control Delay                  24.0     20.5                     13.1     3.9        20.8   17.7         12.1    11.6
Queue Delay                     0.0      0.0                      0.0     0.0         0.0    0.0          0.0     0.0
Total Delay                    24.0     20.5                     13.1     3.9        20.8   17.7         12.1    11.6
LOS                               C        C                        B       A           C      B            B       B
Approach Delay                          21.0                     11.2                       18.1                 11.8
Approach LOS                               C                        B                          B                    B
Queue Length 50th (ft)           20       63                       52       0          8      23          20       32
Queue Length 95th (ft)           46       92                     108       32         22      41          38       48
Internal Link Dist (ft)                  457                     697                         309                  212
Turn Bay Length (ft)           150                                        150         120                120
Base Capacity (vph)            207      921                     1174      767         313   1096         591    1712
Starvation Cap Reductn            0        0                       0        0           0      0            0      0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0        0                       0        0           0      0            0      0
Storage Cap Reductn               0        0                       0        0           0      0            0      0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.34     0.47                    0.51     0.20        0.10   0.20         0.19   0.20
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 75 (94%), Referenced to phase 2:EBTL and 6:WBTL, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.51
Intersection Signal Delay: 14.7                             Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 61.9%                     ICU Level of Service B
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   2: JAMES ST & STATE ST




James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                 Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                          Page 4
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
3: JAMES ST & TOWNSEND ST                                                                                                    10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL        WBT     WBR      NBL      NBT      NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    24      431       24       62        527      59      141      238       49        22     153      25
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900     1900     1900     1900       1900    1900     1900     1900    1900      1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)              0                 0        0                  0       105                0       150               0
Storage Lanes                    0                 0        0                  0         1                1         1               0
Taper Length (ft)               25                25       25                 25        25               25        25              25
Lane Util. Factor             0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95       0.95    0.95     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                        1.00                         0.99              0.99             0.98      0.99    1.00
Frt                                   0.993                        0.986                              0.850             0.979
Flt Protected                         0.998                        0.995            0.950                      0.950
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0   3498          0          0   3458        0    1770      1863     1583    1770      1816       0
Flt Permitted                         0.905                        0.854            0.575                      0.494
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0   3171         0           0   2964        0    1058      1863     1549      915     1816       0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                         Yes                        Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                        10                          20                                  54                12
Link Speed (mph)                         30                          30                         30                         30
Link Distance (ft)                      777                         459                        200                        317
Travel Time (s)                         17.7                        10.4                       4.5                        7.2
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              12                16         16              12       17                10       10               17
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 2                          1
Peak Hour Factor               0.91     0.91     0.91    0.91       0.91    0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91
Adj. Flow (vph)                  26      474       26      68        579      65      155      262       54       24      168       27
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      526         0       0        712        0     155      262       54       24      195        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No       No       No         No      No       No       No      No        No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left    Right     Left       Left   Right     Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          0                            0                        12                         12
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                         0                          0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                        16                         16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                      Perm                        Perm              Perm     Perm
Protected Phases                           2                           2                         4                          4
Permitted Phases                  2                            2                        4                 4        4
Detector Phase                    2        2                   2       2                4        4        4        4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              46.0     46.0              46.0       46.0             34.0     34.0     34.0     34.0     34.0
Total Split (s)                46.0     46.0      0.0     46.0       46.0     0.0     34.0     34.0     34.0     34.0     34.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              57.5%    57.5%     0.0%    57.5%      57.5%    0.0%    42.5%    42.5%    42.5%    42.5%    42.5%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              41.0     41.0              41.0       41.0             29.0     29.0     29.0     29.0     29.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0        1.0              1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                  3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                C-Max C-Max                  Max      Max      Max      Max      Max

James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                 Page 5
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
3: JAMES ST & TOWNSEND ST                                                                                              10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR          NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Walk Time (s)                   7.0      7.0              7.0      7.0                  7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0     7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            13.0     13.0             13.0     13.0                 17.0   17.0   17.0   17.0    17.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5        5                5        5                    5      5      5      5       5
Act Effct Green (s)                     43.0                      43.0                 31.0   31.0   31.0   31.0    31.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.54                      0.54                 0.39   0.39   0.39   0.39    0.39
v/c Ratio                               0.31                      0.44                 0.38   0.36   0.09   0.07    0.27
Control Delay                            4.2                       5.7                 21.0   19.3    5.2   16.2    17.0
Queue Delay                              0.0                       0.0                  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0
Total Delay                              4.2                       5.7                 21.0   19.3    5.2   16.2    17.0
LOS                                        A                         A                    C      B      A      B       B
Approach Delay                           4.2                       5.7                        18.3                  16.9
Approach LOS                               A                         A                           B                     B
Queue Length 50th (ft)                     6                        31                  37      62     0      5       41
Queue Length 95th (ft)                     8                         6                  71     102    14     15       74
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 697                        379                         120                   237
Turn Bay Length (ft)                                                                   105                   150
Base Capacity (vph)                    1709                       1602                 410    722    633    355     711
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0                          0                    0      0      0      0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn                     0                          0                    0      0      0      0       0
Storage Cap Reductn                       0                          0                    0      0      0      0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.31                       0.44                 0.38   0.36   0.09   0.07    0.27
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 37 (46%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.44
Intersection Signal Delay: 9.6                                Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 76.2%                       ICU Level of Service D
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   3: JAMES ST & TOWNSEND ST




James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                    Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                             Page 6
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
4: JAMES ST & MCBRIDE ST                                                                                                    10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL        WBT     WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    49      443       10       14        624      29       13       35      10       13       17      11
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900      1900     1900      1900     1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900
Lane Util. Factor             0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95       0.95    0.95     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                        1.00                         1.00                      1.00                      1.00
Frt                                   0.997                        0.993                     0.976                     0.964
Flt Protected                         0.995                        0.999                     0.989                     0.985
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0   3507          0          0   3500        0        0    1793        0        0    1762        0
Flt Permitted                         0.835                        0.942                     0.952                     0.932
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0   2939         0           0   3299        0        0    1725        0        0    1666        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                         Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                          5                         12                         11                        12
Link Speed (mph)                         30                          30                         30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      459                         455                        383                       324
Travel Time (s)                         10.4                        10.3                       8.7                       7.4
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              20                18         18              20        1                3        3                1
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                          4
Peak Hour Factor               0.91     0.91     0.91    0.91       0.91    0.91     0.91     0.91    0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91
Adj. Flow (vph)                  54      487       11      15        686      32       14       38      11       14       19       12
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      552         0       0        733        0       0       63        0       0       45        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No       No       No         No      No       No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left    Right     Left       Left   Right     Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          0                            0                         0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                         0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                        16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                      Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                           2                           2                         4                         4
Permitted Phases                  2                            2                        4                         4
Detector Phase                    2        2                   2       2                4        4                4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              55.0     55.0              55.0       55.0             25.0     25.0             25.0     25.0
Total Split (s)                55.0     55.0      0.0     55.0       55.0     0.0     25.0     25.0     0.0     25.0     25.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              68.8%    68.8%     0.0%    68.8%      68.8%    0.0%    31.3%    31.3%    0.0%    31.3%    31.3%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              50.0     50.0              50.0       50.0             20.0     20.0             20.0     20.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0        1.0              1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                  3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                C-Max C-Max                  Max      Max              Max      Max
Walk Time (s)                   7.0   7.0                  7.0   7.0                  7.0      7.0              7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            10.0  10.0                 10.0  10.0                 11.0     11.0             11.0     11.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5     5                    5     5                    5        5                5        5

James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                Page 7
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
4: JAMES ST & MCBRIDE ST                                                                                            10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR         NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Act Effct Green (s)                     52.0                      52.0                       22.0                22.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.65                      0.65                       0.28                0.28
v/c Ratio                               0.29                      0.34                       0.13                0.10
Control Delay                            2.0                       7.8                       19.7                17.9
Queue Delay                              0.0                       0.0                        0.0                 0.0
Total Delay                              2.0                       7.8                       19.7                17.9
LOS                                        A                         A                          B                   B
Approach Delay                           2.0                       7.8                       19.7                17.9
Approach LOS                               A                         A                          B                   B
Queue Length 50th (ft)                     7                        38                         13                   8
Queue Length 95th (ft)                    14                       118                         33                  25
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 379                        375                       303                 244
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                    1912                       2149                       482                 467
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0                          0                          0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn                     0                          0                          0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                       0                          0                          0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.29                       0.34                       0.13                0.10
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 46 (58%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.34
Intersection Signal Delay: 6.4                                Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 57.8%                       ICU Level of Service B
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   4: JAMES ST & MCBRIDE ST




James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                 Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                          Page 8
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
5: JAMES ST & CATHERINE ST                                                                                                  10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL        WBT     WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    12      418       36      105        598      18       39       66      47        2      106      30
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900      1900     1900      1900     1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900
Lane Util. Factor             0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95       0.95    0.95     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                        0.99                         0.99                      0.99                      0.99
Frt                                   0.989                        0.996                     0.958                     0.971
Flt Protected                         0.999                        0.993                     0.987                     0.999
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0   3477          0          0   3495        0        0    1743        0        0    1793        0
Flt Permitted                         0.934                        0.801                     0.902                     0.997
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0   3250         0           0   2808        0        0    1587        0        0    1789        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                         Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                        22                            6                        28                        17
Link Speed (mph)                         30                          30                         30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      455                         884                        352                       335
Travel Time (s)                         10.3                        20.1                       8.0                       7.6
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              20                23         23              20       17               16       16                18
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                          2                         2                          2
Peak Hour Factor               0.94     0.94     0.94    0.94       0.94    0.94     0.94     0.94    0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94
Adj. Flow (vph)                  13      445       38     112        636      19       41       70      50        2      113       32
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      496         0       0        767        0       0      161        0       0      147        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No       No       No         No      No       No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left    Right     Left       Left   Right     Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          0                            0                         0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                         0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                        16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                      Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                           2                           2                         4                         4
Permitted Phases                  2                            2                        4                         4
Detector Phase                    2        2                   2       2                4        4                4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              55.0     55.0              55.0       55.0             25.0     25.0             25.0     25.0
Total Split (s)                55.0     55.0      0.0     55.0       55.0     0.0     25.0     25.0     0.0     25.0     25.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              68.8%    68.8%     0.0%    68.8%      68.8%    0.0%    31.3%    31.3%    0.0%    31.3%    31.3%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              50.0     50.0              50.0       50.0             20.0     20.0             20.0     20.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0        1.0              1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                  3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                C-Max C-Max                  Max      Max              Max      Max
Walk Time (s)                   7.0   7.0                  7.0   7.0                  7.0      7.0              7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            10.0  10.0                 10.0  10.0                 12.0     12.0             12.0     12.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5     5                    5     5                    5        5                5        5

James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                Page 9
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
5: JAMES ST & CATHERINE ST                                                                                          10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR          NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Act Effct Green (s)                     52.0                      52.0                       22.0                22.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.65                      0.65                       0.28                0.28
v/c Ratio                               0.23                      0.42                       0.35                0.29
Control Delay                            1.1                       5.8                       21.7                22.0
Queue Delay                              0.0                       0.0                        0.0                 0.0
Total Delay                              1.1                       5.8                       21.7                22.0
LOS                                        A                         A                          C                   C
Approach Delay                           1.1                       5.8                       21.7                22.0
Approach LOS                               A                         A                          C                   C
Queue Length 50th (ft)                     3                        15                         36                  34
Queue Length 95th (ft)                     7                        63                         71                  67
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 375                        804                       272                 255
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                    2120                       1827                       457                 504
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0                          0                          0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn                     0                          0                          0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                       0                          0                          0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.23                       0.42                       0.35                0.29
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 54 (68%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.42
Intersection Signal Delay: 7.5                                Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 77.7%                       ICU Level of Service D
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   5: JAMES ST & CATHERINE ST




James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                 Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                         Page 10
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                                                                       10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL        WBT     WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    25      398       44       19        678      53       28      223      44       32      210      15
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900      1900     1900      1900     1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900
Lane Util. Factor             0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95       0.95    0.95     0.95     0.95    0.95     0.95     0.95    0.95
Ped Bike Factor                        1.00                         1.00                      0.99                      1.00
Frt                                   0.986                        0.989                     0.978                     0.991
Flt Protected                         0.997                        0.999                     0.995                     0.994
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0   3471          0          0   3491        0        0    3425        0        0    3480        0
Flt Permitted                         0.898                        0.938                     0.905                     0.884
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0   3126         0           0   3278        0        0    3112        0        0    3089        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                         Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                        15                           11                        23                         7
Link Speed (mph)                         30                           30                        30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      884                         1883                      1359                       423
Travel Time (s)                         20.1                        42.8                      30.9                       9.6
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              11                10         10              11       14               18       18               14
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 5                          1                         1
Peak Hour Factor               0.96     0.96     0.96    0.96       0.96    0.96     0.96     0.96    0.96     0.96     0.96     0.96
Adj. Flow (vph)                  26      415       46      20        706      55       29      232      46       33      219       16
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      487         0       0        781        0       0      307        0       0      268        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No       No       No         No      No       No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left    Right     Left       Left   Right     Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          0                            0                         0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                         0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                        16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                      Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                           1                           1                         2                         2
Permitted Phases                  1                            1                        2                         2
Detector Phase                    1        1                   1       1                2        2                2        2
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              31.0     31.0              31.0       31.0             21.0     21.0             21.0     21.0
Total Split (s)                31.0     31.0      0.0     31.0       31.0     0.0     21.0     21.0     0.0     21.0     21.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              38.8%    38.8%     0.0%    38.8%      38.8%    0.0%    26.3%    26.3%    0.0%    26.3%    26.3%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              26.0     26.0              26.0       26.0             16.0     16.0             16.0     16.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0        1.0              1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                      Lead     Lead              Lead       Lead               Lag      Lag              Lag      Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0      3.0               3.0        3.0              3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Min    C-Min             C-Min      C-Min             Max      Max              Max      Max
Walk Time (s)
Flash Dont Walk (s)
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)

James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                               Page 11
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                 10/7/2011



Lane Group                      ø3
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
Lane Util. Factor
Ped Bike Factor
Frt
Flt Protected
Satd. Flow (prot)
Flt Permitted
Satd. Flow (perm)
Right Turn on Red
Satd. Flow (RTOR)
Link Speed (mph)
Link Distance (ft)
Travel Time (s)
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)
Peak Hour Factor
Adj. Flow (vph)
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
Enter Blocked Intersection
Lane Alignment
Median Width(ft)
Link Offset(ft)
Crosswalk Width(ft)
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor
Turn Type
Protected Phases                  3
Permitted Phases
Detector Phase
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0
Minimum Split (s)              28.0
Total Split (s)                28.0
Total Split (%)                35%
Maximum Green (s)              25.0
Yellow Time (s)                 3.0
All-Red Time (s)                0.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)
Total Lost Time (s)
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0
Recall Mode                   None
Walk Time (s)                   7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            15.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5

James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Morning Peak Hour   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                           Page 12
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                                                               10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR          NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Act Effct Green (s)                     51.0                      51.0                       18.0                18.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.64                      0.64                       0.22                0.22
v/c Ratio                               0.24                      0.37                       0.43                0.38
Control Delay                           11.4                       9.5                       26.7                27.5
Queue Delay                              0.0                       0.0                        0.0                 0.0
Total Delay                             11.4                       9.5                       26.7                27.5
LOS                                        B                         A                          C                   C
Approach Delay                          11.4                       9.5                       26.7                27.5
Approach LOS                               B                         A                          C                   C
Queue Length 50th (ft)                    53                        45                         43                  39
Queue Length 95th (ft)                    42                       147                         68                  63
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 804                       1803                       1279                343
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                    1999                       2094                       718                 700
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0                          0                          0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn                     0                          0                          0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                       0                          0                          0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.24                       0.37                       0.43                0.38
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 47 (59%), Referenced to phase 1:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.43
Intersection Signal Delay: 15.5                               Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 71.0%                       ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   6: JAMES ST & LODI ST




James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                 Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                         Page 13
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                 10/7/2011



Lane Group                      ø3
Act Effct Green (s)
Actuated g/C Ratio
v/c Ratio
Control Delay
Queue Delay
Total Delay
LOS
Approach Delay
Approach LOS
Queue Length 50th (ft)
Queue Length 95th (ft)
Internal Link Dist (ft)
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
Starvation Cap Reductn
Spillback Cap Reductn
Storage Cap Reductn
Reduced v/c Ratio
Intersection Summary




James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Morning Peak Hour   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                           Page 14
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
7: JAMES ST & OAK ST                                                                                                        10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL        WBT     WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    65      353       56       39        625      26       92      144      82       23       73      33
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900      1900     1900      1900     1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900
Lane Util. Factor             0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95       0.95    0.95     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                        0.99                         1.00                      0.99                      0.99
Frt                                   0.982                        0.994                     0.965                     0.966
Flt Protected                         0.993                        0.997                     0.986                     0.991
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0   3421          0          0   3500        0        0    1761        0        0    1769        0
Flt Permitted                         0.801                        0.909                     0.884                     0.921
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0   2756         0           0   3187        0        0    1572        0        0    1642        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                         Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                        37                           10                       29                        29
Link Speed (mph)                         30                           30                       30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                     1883                         1028                      495                       602
Travel Time (s)                        42.8                         23.4                      11.3                      13.7
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              16                26         26              16       20               12       12                20
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 2                          1                         1                          1
Peak Hour Factor               0.94     0.94     0.94    0.94       0.94    0.94     0.94     0.94    0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94
Adj. Flow (vph)                  69      376       60      41        665      28       98      153      87       24       78       35
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      505         0       0        734        0       0      338        0       0      137        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No       No       No         No      No       No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left    Right     Left       Left   Right     Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          0                            0                         0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                         0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                        16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                      Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                           2                           2                         4                         4
Permitted Phases                  2                            2                        4                         4
Detector Phase                    2        2                   2       2                4        4                4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              40.0     40.0              40.0       40.0             25.0     25.0             25.0     25.0
Total Split (s)                40.0     40.0      0.0     40.0       40.0     0.0     25.0     25.0     0.0     25.0     25.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              61.5%    61.5%     0.0%    61.5%      61.5%    0.0%    38.5%    38.5%    0.0%    38.5%    38.5%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              35.0     35.0              35.0       35.0             20.0     20.0             20.0     20.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0        1.0              1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                  3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                C-Max C-Max                 None     None             None     None
Walk Time (s)                   7.0   7.0                  7.0   7.0                  7.0      7.0              7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)             9.0   9.0                  9.0   9.0                 13.0     13.0             13.0     13.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5     5                    5     5                    5        5                5        5

James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                               Page 15
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
7: JAMES ST & OAK ST                                                                                                  10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL       WBT     WBR          NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Act Effct Green (s)                    40.2                         40.2                       18.8                18.8
Actuated g/C Ratio                     0.62                         0.62                       0.29                0.29
v/c Ratio                              0.29                         0.37                       0.71                0.28
Control Delay                            6.5                         4.1                       27.2                14.5
Queue Delay                              0.0                         0.0                        0.0                 0.0
Total Delay                              6.5                         4.1                       27.2                14.5
LOS                                        A                           A                          C                   B
Approach Delay                           6.5                         4.1                       27.2                14.5
Approach LOS                               A                           A                          C                   B
Queue Length 50th (ft)                   27                           28                         71                  21
Queue Length 95th (ft)                   47                           10                       122                   45
Internal Link Dist (ft)                1803                          948                       415                 522
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                    1718                         1974                       551                 575
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0                            0                          0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn                     0                            0                          0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                       0                            0                          0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.29                         0.37                       0.61                0.24
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 65
Actuated Cycle Length: 65
Offset: 2 (3%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 65
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.71
Intersection Signal Delay: 10.2                                 Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 67.7%                         ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   7: JAMES ST & OAK ST




James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                           Page 16
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
8: JAMES ST & DEWITT ST                                                                                                     10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL        WBT     WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    25      424        9        0        640     100        6        1       2      149        5      44
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900      1900     1900      1900     1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900
Lane Util. Factor             0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95       0.95    0.95     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                        1.00                         0.99                      0.99                      0.97
Frt                                   0.997                        0.980                     0.973                     0.970
Flt Protected                         0.997                                                  0.966                     0.964
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0   3515          0          0    3442       0        0    1736        0        0    1735        0
Flt Permitted                         0.896                                                  0.834                     0.773
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0   3157         0           0    3442       0        0    1495        0        0    1360        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                         Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                         5                           44                         2                       24
Link Speed (mph)                         30                           30                        30                       30
Link Distance (ft)                     1028                          271                       427                      658
Travel Time (s)                        23.4                          6.2                       9.7                      15.0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              18                13         13              18        7               31       31                7
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                          2
Peak Hour Factor               0.90     0.90     0.90    0.90       0.90    0.90     0.90     0.90    0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90
Adj. Flow (vph)                  28      471       10       0        711     111        7        1       2      166        6       49
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      509         0       0        822        0       0       10        0       0      221        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No       No       No         No      No       No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left    Right     Left       Left   Right     Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          0                            0                         0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                         0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                        16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                      Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                           2                           2                         4                         4
Permitted Phases                  2                            2                        4                         4
Detector Phase                    2        2                   2       2                4        4                4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              40.0     40.0              40.0       40.0             25.0     25.0             25.0     25.0
Total Split (s)                40.0     40.0      0.0     40.0       40.0     0.0     25.0     25.0     0.0     25.0     25.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              61.5%    61.5%     0.0%    61.5%      61.5%    0.0%    38.5%    38.5%    0.0%    38.5%    38.5%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              35.0     35.0              35.0       35.0             20.0     20.0             20.0     20.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0        1.0              1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                  3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                C-Max C-Max                 None     None             None     None
Walk Time (s)                   7.0   7.0                  7.0   7.0                  7.0      7.0              7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)             9.0   9.0                  9.0   9.0                 13.0     13.0             13.0     13.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5     5                    5     5                    5        5                5        5

James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                               Page 17
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
8: JAMES ST & DEWITT ST                                                                                             10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR         NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Act Effct Green (s)                     42.6                      42.6                       16.4                16.4
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.66                      0.66                       0.25                0.25
v/c Ratio                               0.25                      0.36                       0.03                0.61
Control Delay                            9.7                       3.7                       14.3                25.7
Queue Delay                              0.0                       0.0                        0.0                 0.0
Total Delay                              9.7                       3.7                       14.3                25.7
LOS                                        A                         A                          B                   C
Approach Delay                           9.7                       3.7                       14.3                25.7
Approach LOS                               A                         A                          B                   C
Queue Length 50th (ft)                    43                        13                          2                  46
Queue Length 95th (ft)                    74                        18                          8                  80
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 948                        191                       347                 578
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                    2071                       2271                       507                 476
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0                          0                          0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn                     0                          0                          0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                       0                          0                          0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.25                       0.36                       0.02                0.46
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 65
Actuated Cycle Length: 65
Offset: 50 (77%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 65
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.61
Intersection Signal Delay: 8.8                                Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 51.8%                       ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   8: JAMES ST & DEWITT ST




James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                 Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                         Page 18
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
9: JAMES ST & SEDGEWICK ST                                                                 10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT       NBL     NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    478      97       35      641        99      28
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900     1900     1900     1900     1900     1900
Lane Util. Factor              0.95    0.95     0.95     0.95      1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                0.99                       1.00     0.99
Frt                           0.975                               0.970
Flt Protected                                           0.997     0.963
Satd. Flow (prot)             3417         0        0   3529      1734        0
Flt Permitted                                           0.904     0.963
Satd. Flow (perm)             3417        0         0   3197      1730        0
Right Turn on Red                       Yes                                 Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)               66                                   23
Link Speed (mph)                30                         30        30
Link Distance (ft)             271                       1437       521
Travel Time (s)                6.2                       32.7      11.8
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                       18      18                  3       2
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                        2                                  1
Peak Hour Factor               0.91     0.91     0.91    0.91      0.91    0.91
Adj. Flow (vph)                525      107        38     704       109      31
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)          632        0        0      742       140       0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No       No       No        No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left    Right     Left     Left      Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                 0                          0        12
Link Offset(ft)                  0                          0         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)             16                         16        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00    1.00
Turn Type                                       Perm
Protected Phases                  2                           2       4
Permitted Phases                                    2
Detector Phase                    2                 2         2       4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0               4.0      4.0       4.0
Minimum Split (s)              42.0              42.0     42.0      23.0
Total Split (s)                42.0      0.0     42.0     42.0      23.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              64.6%     0.0%    64.6%    64.6%     35.4%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              37.0              37.0     37.0      18.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0               4.0      4.0       4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0               1.0      1.0       1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0      -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0               3.0   3.0         3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max             C-Max C-Max         Max
Walk Time (s)                   7.0               7.0   7.0         7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)             9.0               9.0   9.0        11.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5                 5     5           5

James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                        Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                Page 19
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
9: JAMES ST & SEDGEWICK ST                                                                     10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      NBL      NBR
Act Effct Green (s)            39.0                      39.0     20.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.60                      0.60     0.31
v/c Ratio                      0.30                      0.39     0.26
Control Delay                   3.4                       9.6     15.6
Queue Delay                     0.0                       0.0      0.0
Total Delay                     3.4                       9.6     15.6
LOS                               A                         A        B
Approach Delay                  3.4                       9.6     15.6
Approach LOS                      A                         A        B
Queue Length 50th (ft)           13                        47       23
Queue Length 95th (ft)           14                       134       50
Internal Link Dist (ft)        191                       1357      441
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)           2077                       1918      549
Starvation Cap Reductn           0                          0        0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0                          0        0
Storage Cap Reductn              0                          0        0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.30                       0.39     0.26
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 65
Actuated Cycle Length: 65
Offset: 42 (65%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 65
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.39
Intersection Signal Delay: 7.6                                Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 60.3%                       ICU Level of Service B
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   9: JAMES ST & SEDGEWICK ST




James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                            Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                    Page 20
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
10: JAMES ST & WILSON ST                                                                   10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT       NBL     NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    497       9       13       658       18      24
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900     1900     1900     1900     1900     1900
Lane Util. Factor              0.95    0.95     0.95     0.95      1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                1.00                       1.00     0.98
Frt                           0.997                               0.922
Flt Protected                                           0.999     0.979
Satd. Flow (prot)             3527         0        0   3536      1652        0
Flt Permitted                                           0.943     0.979
Satd. Flow (perm)             3527        0         0   3337      1652        0
Right Turn on Red                       Yes                                 Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                5                                   29
Link Speed (mph)                30                         30        30
Link Distance (ft)            1437                       1093       701
Travel Time (s)               32.7                       24.8      15.9
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                        6        6                        18
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                        1                                  1
Peak Hour Factor               0.84     0.84     0.84    0.84      0.84    0.84
Adj. Flow (vph)                592        11       15     783        21      29
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)          603        0        0      798        50       0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No       No       No        No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left    Right     Left     Left      Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                12                         12        12
Link Offset(ft)                  0                          0         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)             16                         16        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00    1.00
Turn Type                                       Perm
Protected Phases                  2                           2       4
Permitted Phases                                    2
Detector Phase                    2                 2         2       4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0               4.0      4.0       4.0
Minimum Split (s)              40.0              40.0     40.0      25.0
Total Split (s)                40.0      0.0     40.0     40.0      25.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              61.5%     0.0%    61.5%    61.5%     38.5%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              35.0              35.0     35.0      20.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0               4.0      4.0       4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0               1.0      1.0       1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0      -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0               3.0   3.0         3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max             C-Max C-Max        None
Walk Time (s)                   7.0               7.0   7.0         7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            10.0              10.0  10.0        13.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5                 5     5           5

James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                        Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                Page 21
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
10: JAMES ST & WILSON ST                                                                       10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      NBL      NBR
Act Effct Green (s)           53.5                       53.5     10.9
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.82                       0.82     0.17
v/c Ratio                     0.21                       0.29     0.17
Control Delay                   4.9                       3.6     12.6
Queue Delay                     0.0                       0.0      0.0
Total Delay                     4.9                       3.6     12.6
LOS                               A                         A        B
Approach Delay                  4.9                       3.6     12.6
Approach LOS                      A                         A        B
Queue Length 50th (ft)            8                        21        5
Queue Length 95th (ft)          67                         73       16
Internal Link Dist (ft)       1357                       1013      621
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)           2903                       2746      578
Starvation Cap Reductn           0                          0        0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0                          0        0
Storage Cap Reductn              0                          0        0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.21                       0.29     0.09
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 65
Actuated Cycle Length: 65
Offset: 54 (83%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 65
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.29
Intersection Signal Delay: 4.4                                Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 43.5%                       ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   10: JAMES ST & WILSON ST




James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                            Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                    Page 22
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
11: JAMES ST & TEALL AVE                                                                                                     10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL        WBT      WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    85      360       76        68       368       10      142      295      77        6      372     161
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900     1900     1900     1900       1900     1900     1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)            160                 0       125                  0        0                0        0                0
Storage Lanes                    1                 0         1                  0        0                0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)               25                25        25                 25       25               25       25               25
Lane Util. Factor             1.00     0.95     0.95     1.00       0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95    0.95     0.95     0.95    0.95
Ped Bike Factor               0.99     0.99               0.98      1.00                       1.00                      0.98
Frt                                   0.974                        0.996                      0.977                     0.955
Flt Protected                 0.950                     0.950                                 0.986                     0.999
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770     3421         0   1770        3522        0        0    3396        0        0    3306        0
Flt Permitted                 0.950                     0.950                                 0.654                     0.949
Satd. Flow (perm)             1750     3421        0    1741        3522        0        0    2252        0        0    3140        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                          Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                        19                            2                         18                        46
Link Speed (mph)                         30                           30                         30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                     1093                         2248                        180                       188
Travel Time (s)                        24.8                         51.1                        4.1                       4.3
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)               8                13         13                8       24                6        6               24
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                           1
Peak Hour Factor               0.90     0.90     0.90    0.90        0.90    0.90     0.90     0.90    0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90
Adj. Flow (vph)                  94      400       84      76         409      11      158      328      86        7      413      179
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)           94      484         0      76        420         0       0      572        0       0      599        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No       No       No         No       No       No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left    Right     Left       Left    Right     Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                         12                           12                          0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                          0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                         16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00        1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                      Prot                      Prot                        pm+pt                     Perm
Protected Phases                  1        6                5           2                7        4                         8
Permitted Phases                                                                         4                         8
Detector Phase                    1        6                   5        2                7        4                8        8
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             5.0      5.0               5.0         5.0              5.0      5.0              5.0      5.0
Minimum Split (s)               9.5     22.0               9.5       22.0              10.0     22.0             22.0     22.0
Total Split (s)                25.0     50.0      0.0     25.0       50.0      0.0     25.0     65.0     0.0     40.0     40.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              17.9%    35.7%     0.0%    17.9%      35.7%     0.0%    17.9%    46.4%    0.0%    28.6%    28.6%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              20.5     45.0              20.5       45.0              20.0     60.0             35.0     35.0
Yellow Time (s)                 3.5      4.0               3.5         4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0         1.0              1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             2.5      3.0      3.0      2.5        3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                      Lead       Lag             Lead         Lag             Lead                        Lag      Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0      3.0               3.0        3.0               3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                   None      Min             None         Min             None     None             None     None

James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                Page 23
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
11: JAMES ST & TEALL AVE                                                                                                  10/7/2011



Lane Group                       EBL       EBT    EBR    WBL           WBT     WBR          NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL     SBT     SBR
Walk Time (s)                               7.0                         7.0                        7.0          7.0     7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)                       10.0                         10.0                       10.0         10.0    10.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)                       5                           5                          5            5       5
Act Effct Green (s)              12.7     19.3           11.8          18.6                       30.6                 30.6
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.19     0.29           0.18          0.28                       0.45                 0.45
v/c Ratio                        0.28     0.49           0.24          0.43                       0.55                 0.41
Control Delay                    31.7     23.5           32.2          24.4                       17.0                 13.6
Queue Delay                       0.0       0.0           0.0           0.0                        0.0                  0.0
Total Delay                      31.7     23.5           32.2          24.4                       17.0                 13.6
LOS                                 C        C              C             C                          B                    B
Approach Delay                            24.8                         25.6                       17.0                 13.6
Approach LOS                                 C                            C                          B                    B
Queue Length 50th (ft)            23        56                19         51                         58                   53
Queue Length 95th (ft)            67       119                57        108                       118                   105
Internal Link Dist (ft)                   1013                         2168                       100                   108
Turn Bay Length (ft)             160                     125
Base Capacity (vph)              660      2467           660           2535                       1966                1985
Starvation Cap Reductn              0        0              0             0                          0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn               0        0              0             0                          0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                 0        0              0             0                          0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                0.14     0.20           0.12          0.17                       0.29                0.30
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 140
Actuated Cycle Length: 67.3
Natural Cycle: 65
Control Type: Actuated-Uncoordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.55
Intersection Signal Delay: 20.0                                    Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 61.8%                            ICU Level of Service B
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:    11: JAMES ST & TEALL AVE




James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                               Page 24
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                                                                         10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL         WBT     WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     0      418       25        8         343       0       37        0      61      198       36      58
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900     1900    1900      1900        1900    1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900
Lane Util. Factor             1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00        1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                                 0.97                  1.00                     0.99                      0.99
Frt                                            0.850                                          0.916                     0.973
Flt Protected                                                       0.999                     0.981                     0.967
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0    1863     1583           0    1861        0        0    1650        0        0    1740        0
Flt Permitted                                                       0.988                     0.837                     0.705
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0    1863     1537           0    1840        0        0    1408        0        0    1267        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                          Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                                 31                                             71                        11
Link Speed (mph)                         30                            30                        30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                     2248                           208                       239                       142
Travel Time (s)                        51.1                           4.7                       5.4                       3.2
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              23                11         11               23       12                1        1                12
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 3                                                                                1
Peak Hour Factor               0.81     0.81     0.81    0.81        0.81    0.81     0.81     0.81    0.81     0.81     0.81     0.81
Adj. Flow (vph)                   0      516       31      10         423       0       46        0      75      244       44       72
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      516        31       0         433        0       0      121        0       0      360        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No       No       No          No      No       No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left    Right     Left        Left   Right     Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                         12                            12                         0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                           0                             0                         0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                            16                        16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00        1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turning Speed (mph)              15                 9      15                   9       15                9       15                 9
Turn Type                                       Perm    Perm                         Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                       124                           124                          3                         3
Permitted Phases                                124      124                             3                         3
Detector Phase                         124      124      124         124                 3        3                3        3
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)                                                                     8.0      8.0              8.0      8.0
Minimum Split (s)                                                                      22.0     22.0             22.0     22.0
Total Split (s)                 0.0     78.0     78.0     78.0        78.0     0.0     30.0     30.0     0.0     30.0     30.0     0.0
Total Split (%)               0.0%    72.2%    72.2%    72.2%       72.2%    0.0%    27.8%    27.8%    0.0%    27.8%    27.8%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)                                                                      25.5     25.5             25.5     25.5
Yellow Time (s)                                                                         3.5      3.5              3.5      3.5
All-Red Time (s)                                                                        1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)            0.0      0.0      0.0         0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Total Lost Time (s)             4.0      4.5      4.5         4.5     4.5      4.0      4.5      4.5     4.0      4.5      4.5     4.0
Lead/Lag                                                                              Lead     Lead             Lead     Lead
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)                                                                  3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                                                                          None     None             None     None
Walk Time (s)                                                                          7.0      7.0              7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)                                                                   10.0     10.0             10.0     10.0

James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                Page 25
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                  10/7/2011



Lane Group                      ø1       ø2       ø4
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
Lane Util. Factor
Ped Bike Factor
Frt
Flt Protected
Satd. Flow (prot)
Flt Permitted
Satd. Flow (perm)
Right Turn on Red
Satd. Flow (RTOR)
Link Speed (mph)
Link Distance (ft)
Travel Time (s)
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)
Peak Hour Factor
Adj. Flow (vph)
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
Enter Blocked Intersection
Lane Alignment
Median Width(ft)
Link Offset(ft)
Crosswalk Width(ft)
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor
Turning Speed (mph)
Turn Type
Protected Phases                  1        2        4
Permitted Phases
Detector Phase
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             5.0     10.0     5.0
Minimum Split (s)               9.5     22.0     9.5
Total Split (s)                13.0     40.0    25.0
Total Split (%)                12%      37%     23%
Maximum Green (s)               8.5     35.5    20.5
Yellow Time (s)                 3.5      3.5     3.5
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0     1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)
Total Lost Time (s)
Lead/Lag                      Lead      Lag      Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0       3.0     3.0
Recall Mode                   None       Min    None
Walk Time (s)                            7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)                     10.0

James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Morning Peak Hour   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                           Page 26
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                                                              10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL    WBT      WBR         NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL     SBT    SBR
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)                                                                5      5           5       5
Act Effct Green (s)                    70.9      70.9            70.9                      25.5                25.5
Actuated g/C Ratio                     0.67      0.67            0.67                      0.24                0.24
v/c Ratio                              0.41      0.03            0.35                      0.31                1.14
Control Delay                           8.9       2.0             2.5                      17.9               131.8
Queue Delay                             0.4       0.0             0.7                       0.1               380.0
Total Delay                             9.4       2.0             3.2                      17.9               511.8
LOS                                       A         A               A                         B                   F
Approach Delay                          9.0                       3.2                      17.9               511.8
Approach LOS                              A                         A                         B                   F
Queue Length 50th (ft)                   96         0               9                        19               ~199
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  117         5              24                        44                #276
Internal Link Dist (ft)                2168                      128                       159                   62
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                    1261     1050            1245                       395                 315
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0        0             490                          0                135
Spillback Cap Reductn                   336        0                0                        13                   2
Storage Cap Reductn                       0        0                0                         0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.56     0.03             0.57                      0.32                2.00
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 108
Actuated Cycle Length: 105.5
Natural Cycle: 65
Control Type: Actuated-Uncoordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 1.14
Intersection Signal Delay: 131.9                            Intersection LOS: F
Intersection Capacity Utilization 55.3%                     ICU Level of Service B
Analysis Period (min) 15
~ Volume exceeds capacity, queue is theoretically infinite.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

Splits and Phases:   12: JAMES ST & Grant




James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                               Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                       Page 27
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                  10/7/2011



Lane Group                      ø1       ø2       ø4
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)                   5
Act Effct Green (s)
Actuated g/C Ratio
v/c Ratio
Control Delay
Queue Delay
Total Delay
LOS
Approach Delay
Approach LOS
Queue Length 50th (ft)
Queue Length 95th (ft)
Internal Link Dist (ft)
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
Starvation Cap Reductn
Spillback Cap Reductn
Storage Cap Reductn
Reduced v/c Ratio
Intersection Summary




James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Morning Peak Hour   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                           Page 28
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
13: James S & Walgreens                                                                                                  10/7/2011



Lane Group                    EBL2      EBL      EBT     WBT       WBR       SBL     SBR     SEL     SER       ø3
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    50       85      542      351       215        5        8       0       0
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900     1900     1900     1900     1900     1900      1900    1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)                      75                         150        0        0       0       0
Storage Lanes                             1                           1        1        0       0       0
Taper Length (ft)                        25                          25       25       25      25      25
Lane Util. Factor              1.00    1.00      1.00    1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                                                    0.91     0.98
Frt                                                               0.850    0.916
Flt Protected                         0.950                                0.982
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0   1770      1863     1863      1583    1676         0       0       0
Flt Permitted                         0.368                                0.982
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0     685     1863     1863      1438    1637         0       0       0
Right Turn on Red                                                                                     Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)
Link Speed (mph)                                  30      30                   30              30
Link Distance (ft)                               208     618                  139             186
Travel Time (s)                                  4.7     14.0                 3.2             4.2
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              23                                  23        23
Peak Hour Factor               0.81     0.81     0.81    0.81      0.81      0.81    0.81    0.81    0.81
Adj. Flow (vph)                  62      105      669     433       265         6      10       0       0
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      167      669      433      265        16        0       0       0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No       No       No       No        No       No      No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left     Left     Left    Right      Left    Right    Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                                  12       12                 12                0
Link Offset(ft)                                    0        0                  0                0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                               16       16                 16               16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00   1.00       1.00    1.00      1.00      1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Turning Speed (mph)               15     15                           9        15       9      15       9
Turn Type                    custom custom                        Perm
Protected Phases                          1     123           2                 4                               3
Permitted Phases                 23     23                            2
Detector Phase                   23       1     123           2       2         4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)                      5.0              10.0      10.0       5.0                            8.0
Minimum Split (s)                        9.5              22.0      22.0       9.5                           22.0
Total Split (s)                70.0     13.0     83.0     40.0      40.0     25.0      0.0     0.0     0.0   30.0
Total Split (%)              64.8%    12.0%    76.9%    37.0%     37.0%    23.1%     0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    28%
Maximum Green (s)                        8.5              35.5      35.5     20.5                            25.5
Yellow Time (s)                          3.5               3.5       3.5      3.5                             3.5
All-Red Time (s)                         1.0               1.0       1.0      1.0                             1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)            0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
Total Lost Time (s)             4.5      4.5      4.5      4.5       4.5      4.5      4.0    4.0      4.0
Lead/Lag                               Lead                Lag       Lag      Lag                            Lead
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)                    3.0              3.0       3.0      3.0                               3.0
Recall Mode                            None               Min       Min     None                             None

James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                              Page 29
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
13: James S & Walgreens                                                                                            10/7/2011



Lane Group                    EBL2      EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR       SBL        SBR   SEL   SER    ø3
Walk Time (s)                                              7.0    7.0                                    7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)                                      10.0    10.0                                   10.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)                                      5      5                                      5
Act Effct Green (s)                     73.0    77.5     34.4    34.4     19.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.69    0.73     0.33    0.33     0.18
v/c Ratio                               0.30    0.49     0.71    0.56     0.05
Control Delay                            7.1     9.8     39.0    35.2     36.5
Queue Delay                              0.3     1.3      0.0     0.0      0.0
Total Delay                              7.5    11.1     39.0    35.2     36.5
LOS                                        A       B        D       D        D
Approach Delay                                  10.4     37.6             36.5
Approach LOS                                       B        D                D
Queue Length 50th (ft)                   32      157      177     102        6
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  m38    m161       221     140       17
Internal Link Dist (ft)                          128      538               59              106
Turn Bay Length (ft)                      75                       150
Base Capacity (vph)                     562     1369      628      485     326
Starvation Cap Reductn                  116      461        0        0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn                      0       0        0        0       0
Storage Cap Reductn                        0       0        0        0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio                       0.37    0.74     0.69     0.55    0.05
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 108
Actuated Cycle Length: 105.5
Natural Cycle: 65
Control Type: Actuated-Uncoordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 1.14
Intersection Signal Delay: 22.9                              Intersection LOS: C
Intersection Capacity Utilization 41.4%                      ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   13: James S & Walgreens




James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                        Page 30
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
1: JAMES ST & OSWEGO BLVD                                                                                                   10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL        WBT     WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     0      452      101       28        498       1      274        0      17        4        6       9
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900      1900     1900       1900    1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900
Lane Util. Factor             0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95       0.95    0.95     0.95     0.95    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                        0.99                          1.00                     1.00                      0.99
Frt                                   0.973                                                  0.982                     0.936
Flt Protected                                                      0.997            0.950    0.958                     0.990
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0    3414         0          0   3528        0    1681     1660        0        0    1711        0
Flt Permitted                                                      0.907            0.215    0.287                     0.883
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0    3414        0           0   3208        0      380      497       0        0    1522        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                         Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                        34                                                      9                         9
Link Speed (mph)                         30                          30                         30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      170                         537                        242                       134
Travel Time (s)                         3.9                         12.2                       5.5                       3.0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)               6                29         29               6        3               11       11                 3
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 4                          5                                                    1
Peak Hour Factor               0.95     0.95     0.95    0.95       0.95    0.95     0.95     0.95    0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95
Adj. Flow (vph)                   0      476      106      29        524       1      288        0      18        4        6        9
Shared Lane Traffic (%)                                                              47%
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      582         0       0        554        0     153      153        0       0       19        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No       No       No         No      No       No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left    Right     Left       Left   Right     Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                         12                           12                        12                        12
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                         0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                        16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turning Speed (mph)              15                 9      15                  9       15                9       15                 9
Turn Type                     Perm                      Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                           1                           1                         2                         3
Permitted Phases                  1                            1                        2                         3
Detector Phase                    1        1                   1       1                2        2                3        3
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              32.0     32.0              32.0       32.0             35.0     35.0             18.0     18.0
Total Split (s)                32.0     32.0      0.0     32.0       32.0     0.0     35.0     35.0     0.0     18.0     18.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              37.6%    37.6%     0.0%    37.6%      37.6%    0.0%    41.2%    41.2%    0.0%    21.2%    21.2%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              27.0     27.0              27.0       27.0             30.0     30.0             13.0     13.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0        1.0              1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                      Lead     Lead              Lead       Lead               Lag      Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                  3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                C-Max C-Max                  Max      Max             None     None
Walk Time (s)                   7.0   7.0                  7.0   7.0                  7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            15.0  15.0                 15.0  15.0                 12.0     12.0

James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                Page 1
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
1: JAMES ST & OSWEGO BLVD                                                                                            10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR      NBL       NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)          5         5               5         5                 5         5
Act Effct Green (s)                     42.1                      42.1              32.0      32.0                 8.3
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.50                      0.50              0.38      0.38                0.10
v/c Ratio                               0.34                      0.35              1.07      0.79                0.12
Control Delay                           14.0                      34.5             126.2      53.6                26.6
Queue Delay                              0.0                       0.0               0.0       0.0                 0.0
Total Delay                             14.0                      34.5             126.2      53.6                26.6
LOS                                        B                         C                 F         D                   C
Approach Delay                          14.0                      34.5                        89.9                26.6
Approach LOS                               B                         C                           F                   C
Queue Length 50th (ft)                    52                        95                  ~65     48                   3
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  102                        137                 #149   #128                  17
Internal Link Dist (ft)                   90                       457                         162                  54
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                    1708                       1589                 143    193                 276
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0                          0                    0      0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn                     0                          0                    0      0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                       0                          0                    0      0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.34                       0.35                 1.07   0.79                0.07
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 32 (38%), Referenced to phase 1:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 85
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 1.07
Intersection Signal Delay: 37.8                               Intersection LOS: D
Intersection Capacity Utilization 57.2%                       ICU Level of Service B
Analysis Period (min) 15
~ Volume exceeds capacity, queue is theoretically infinite.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

Splits and Phases:   1: JAMES ST & OSWEGO BLVD




James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                  Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                           Page 2
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
2: JAMES ST & STATE ST                                                                                                       10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL        WBT      WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    52      408       13       81        474      291        32     694     103       99      151      21
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900     1900     1900     1900       1900    1900      1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)            150                 0        0                 150       120               0      120                0
Storage Lanes                    1                 0        0                   1         1               0        1                0
Taper Length (ft)               25                25       25                  25        25              25       25               25
Lane Util. Factor             1.00     0.95     0.95     0.95       0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95    0.95     1.00     0.95    0.95
Ped Bike Factor               0.99     1.00                         1.00     0.98      0.99    0.99                      1.00
Frt                                   0.995                                 0.850             0.981                     0.982
Flt Protected                 0.950                                0.993             0.950                     0.950
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770     3514         0          0   3514      1583    1770      3452       0    1770      3463       0
Flt Permitted                 0.421                                0.742             0.633                     0.138
Satd. Flow (perm)               779    3514        0           0   2618      1549    1163      3452       0      257     3463       0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                          Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                          3                                  298                21                        23
Link Speed (mph)                         30                          30                          30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      537                         777                         389                       292
Travel Time (s)                         12.2                        17.7                        8.8                       6.6
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              11                38         38               11       12               38       38               12
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                           3                         3
Peak Hour Factor               0.91     0.91     0.91    0.91       0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91    0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91
Adj. Flow (vph)                  57      448       14      89        521      320       35      763     113      109      166       23
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)           57      462         0       0        610     320        35      876        0     109      189        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No       No       No         No      No        No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left    Right     Left       Left   Right      Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                         12                           12                         12                        12
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                          0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                         16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                      pm+pt               Perm     Perm                      pm+pt
Protected Phases                           2                1          6                          4                3        8
Permitted Phases                  2                         6                   6        4                         8
Detector Phase                    2        2                1          6        6        4        4                3        8
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              24.0     24.0              14.0       38.0     38.0     33.0     33.0             14.0     47.0
Total Split (s)                24.0     24.0      0.0     14.0       38.0     38.0     33.0     33.0     0.0     14.0     47.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              28.2%    28.2%     0.0%    16.5%      44.7%    44.7%    38.8%    38.8%    0.0%    16.5%    55.3%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              19.0     19.0               9.0       33.0     33.0     28.0     28.0              9.0     42.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0        1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                       Lag      Lag              Lead                           Lag      Lag            Lead
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                  3.0   3.0   3.0             3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                  Max C-Max C-Max             Max      Max              Max      Max

James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                 Page 3
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
2: JAMES ST & STATE ST                                                                                               10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL     EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR         NBL    NBT    NBR   SBL     SBT     SBR
Walk Time (s)                   7.0     7.0                                                                        7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            10.0    10.0                                                                       10.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5       5                                                                          5
Act Effct Green (s)            21.0    21.0                       35.0    35.0        30.0   30.0         44.0    44.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.25    0.25                       0.41    0.41        0.35   0.35         0.52    0.52
v/c Ratio                      0.30    0.53                       0.51    0.39        0.09   0.71         0.33    0.10
Control Delay                  24.3    25.1                       25.8    11.2        19.2   27.0         13.4     9.3
Queue Delay                     0.0     0.0                        0.0     0.0         0.0    0.0          0.0     0.0
Total Delay                    24.3    25.1                       25.8    11.2        19.2   27.0         13.4     9.3
LOS                               C       C                          C       B           B      C            B       A
Approach Delay                         25.0                       20.7                       26.7                 10.8
Approach LOS                              C                          C                          C                    B
Queue Length 50th (ft)          19       85                         90     25           8     138          19       15
Queue Length 95th (ft)         m45    m122                        122     m71          22     185          37       26
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 457                       697                         309                  212
Turn Bay Length (ft)           150                                         150         120                120
Base Capacity (vph)            192      870                      1194      813         410   1232         329    1804
Starvation Cap Reductn            0        0                        0        0           0      0            0      0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0        0                        0        0           0      0            0      0
Storage Cap Reductn               0        0                        0        0           0      0            0      0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.30     0.53                     0.51     0.39        0.09   0.71         0.33   0.10
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 53 (62%), Referenced to phase 2:EBTL and 6:WBTL, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 85
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.71
Intersection Signal Delay: 22.5                              Intersection LOS: C
Intersection Capacity Utilization 71.3%                      ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   2: JAMES ST & STATE ST




James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                  Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                           Page 4
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
3: JAMES ST & TOWNSEND ST                                                                                                    10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL        WBT     WBR      NBL      NBT      NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    29      513       68       35        588      39      222      347       93        35     208      36
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900     1900     1900     1900       1900    1900     1900     1900    1900      1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)              0                 0        0                  0       105                0       150               0
Storage Lanes                    0                 0        0                  0         1                1         1               0
Taper Length (ft)               25                25       25                 25        25               25        25              25
Lane Util. Factor             0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95       0.95    0.95     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                        0.99                         1.00              0.99             0.98      1.00    1.00
Frt                                   0.983                        0.991                              0.850             0.978
Flt Protected                         0.998                        0.997            0.950                      0.950
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0   3447          0          0   3485        0    1770      1863     1583    1770      1815       0
Flt Permitted                         0.901                        0.897            0.488                      0.361
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0   3110         0           0   3133        0      901     1863     1553      670     1815       0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                         Yes                        Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                        25                          12                                  99                12
Link Speed (mph)                         30                          30                         30                         30
Link Distance (ft)                      777                         459                        200                        317
Travel Time (s)                         17.7                        10.4                       4.5                        7.2
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              17                21         21              17       13                 7        7               13
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 2                          7
Peak Hour Factor               0.94     0.94     0.94    0.94       0.94    0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94
Adj. Flow (vph)                  31      546       72      37        626      41      236      369       99       37      221       38
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      649         0       0        704        0     236      369       99       37      259        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No       No       No         No      No       No       No      No        No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left    Right     Left       Left   Right     Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          0                            0                        12                         12
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                         0                          0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                        16                         16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                      Perm                        Perm              Perm     Perm
Protected Phases                           2                           2                         4                          4
Permitted Phases                  2                            2                        4                 4        4
Detector Phase                    2        2                   2       2                4        4        4        4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              50.0     50.0              50.0       50.0             35.0     35.0     35.0     35.0     35.0
Total Split (s)                50.0     50.0      0.0     50.0       50.0     0.0     35.0     35.0     35.0     35.0     35.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              58.8%    58.8%     0.0%    58.8%      58.8%    0.0%    41.2%    41.2%    41.2%    41.2%    41.2%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              45.0     45.0              45.0       45.0             30.0     30.0     30.0     30.0     30.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0        1.0              1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                  3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                C-Max C-Max                  Max      Max      Max      Max      Max

James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                 Page 5
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
3: JAMES ST & TOWNSEND ST                                                                                            10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL    WBT      WBR         NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Walk Time (s)                   7.0      7.0              7.0    7.0                  7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0     7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            13.0     13.0             13.0   13.0                 17.0   17.0   17.0   17.0    17.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5        5                5      5                    5      5      5      5       5
Act Effct Green (s)                     47.0                    47.0                 32.0   32.0   32.0   32.0    32.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.55                    0.55                 0.38   0.38   0.38   0.38    0.38
v/c Ratio                               0.37                    0.41                 0.70   0.53   0.15   0.15    0.37
Control Delay                            6.3                     6.0                 35.5   24.0    4.6   19.5    20.3
Queue Delay                              0.0                     0.0                  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0
Total Delay                              6.3                     6.0                 35.5   24.0    4.6   19.5    20.3
LOS                                        A                       A                    D      C      A      B       C
Approach Delay                           6.3                     6.0                        25.1                  20.2
Approach LOS                               A                       A                           C                     C
Queue Length 50th (ft)                    26                      28               71        102     0      9       64
Queue Length 95th (ft)                    35                      36             #146       159     20     24      106
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 697                      379                         120                   237
Turn Bay Length (ft)                                                                 105                   150
Base Capacity (vph)                    1731                     1738                 339    701    646    252     691
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0                        0                    0      0      0      0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn                     0                        0                    0      0      0      0       0
Storage Cap Reductn                       0                        0                    0      0      0      0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.37                     0.41                 0.70   0.53   0.15   0.15    0.37
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 4 (5%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 85
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.70
Intersection Signal Delay: 13.6                             Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 81.7%                     ICU Level of Service D
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

Splits and Phases:   3: JAMES ST & TOWNSEND ST




James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                  Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                           Page 6
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
4: JAMES ST & MCBRIDE ST                                                                                                    10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL        WBT     WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    46      578       17       11        600      36       16       54       6       58       65      46
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900      1900     1900      1900     1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900
Lane Util. Factor             0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95       0.95    0.95     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                        1.00                         0.99                      1.00                      0.99
Frt                                   0.996                        0.992                     0.989                     0.963
Flt Protected                         0.996                        0.999                     0.990                     0.983
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0   3504          0          0   3489        0        0    1820        0        0    1752        0
Flt Permitted                         0.858                        0.942                     0.928                     0.877
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0   3013         0           0   3289        0        0    1704        0        0    1558        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                         Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                          7                         15                          5                        22
Link Speed (mph)                         30                          30                         30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      459                         455                        383                       324
Travel Time (s)                         10.4                        10.3                       8.7                       7.4
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              30                22         22              30        8                8        8                8
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 5                          4
Peak Hour Factor               0.89     0.89     0.89    0.89       0.89    0.89     0.89     0.89    0.89     0.89     0.89     0.89
Adj. Flow (vph)                  52      649       19      12        674      40       18       61       7       65       73       52
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      720         0       0        726        0       0       86        0       0      190        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No       No       No         No      No       No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left    Right     Left       Left   Right     Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          0                            0                         0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                         0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                        16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                      Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                           2                           2                         4                         4
Permitted Phases                  2                            2                        4                         4
Detector Phase                    2        2                   2       2                4        4                4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              59.0     59.0              59.0       59.0             26.0     26.0             26.0     26.0
Total Split (s)                59.0     59.0      0.0     59.0       59.0     0.0     26.0     26.0     0.0     26.0     26.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              69.4%    69.4%     0.0%    69.4%      69.4%    0.0%    30.6%    30.6%    0.0%    30.6%    30.6%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              54.0     54.0              54.0       54.0             21.0     21.0             21.0     21.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0        1.0              1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                  3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                C-Max C-Max                  Max      Max              Max      Max
Walk Time (s)                   7.0   7.0                  7.0   7.0                  7.0      7.0              7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            10.0  10.0                 10.0  10.0                 11.0     11.0             11.0     11.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5     5                    5     5                    5        5                5        5

James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                Page 7
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
4: JAMES ST & MCBRIDE ST                                                                                           10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR         NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Act Effct Green (s)                     56.0                     56.0                       23.0                23.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.66                     0.66                       0.27                0.27
v/c Ratio                               0.36                     0.33                       0.18                0.43
Control Delay                            2.9                      5.1                       23.7                26.2
Queue Delay                              0.0                      0.0                        0.0                 0.0
Total Delay                              2.9                      5.1                       23.7                26.2
LOS                                        A                        A                          C                   C
Approach Delay                           2.9                      5.1                       23.7                26.2
Approach LOS                               A                        A                          C                   C
Queue Length 50th (ft)                    18                       40                         23                  50
Queue Length 95th (ft)                    28                     m48                          47                  91
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 379                       375                       303                 244
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                    1987                      2172                       465                 438
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0                         0                          0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn                     0                         0                          0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                       0                         0                          0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.36                      0.33                       0.18                0.43
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 6 (7%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 85
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.43
Intersection Signal Delay: 7.4                               Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 61.9%                      ICU Level of Service B
Analysis Period (min) 15
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   4: JAMES ST & MCBRIDE ST




James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                         Page 8
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
5: JAMES ST & CATHERINE ST                                                                                                  10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL        WBT     WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    27      580       35       59        499      23      113      178      57        6      113      35
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900      1900     1900      1900     1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900
Lane Util. Factor             0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95       0.95    0.95     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                        1.00                         1.00                      0.99                      0.99
Frt                                   0.992                        0.994                     0.978                     0.969
Flt Protected                         0.998                        0.995                     0.984                     0.998
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0   3492          0          0   3492        0        0    1777        0        0    1786        0
Flt Permitted                         0.917                        0.833                     0.797                     0.988
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0   3206         0           0   2919        0        0    1431        0        0    1767        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                         Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                        14                          10                         11                        17
Link Speed (mph)                         30                          30                         30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      455                         884                        352                       335
Travel Time (s)                         10.3                        20.1                       8.0                       7.6
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              16                17         17              16       19               32       32                19
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 5                          7                                                    2
Peak Hour Factor               0.97     0.97     0.97    0.97       0.97    0.97     0.97     0.97    0.97     0.97     0.97     0.97
Adj. Flow (vph)                  28      598       36      61        514      24      116      184      59        6      116       36
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      662         0       0        599        0       0      359        0       0      158        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No       No       No         No      No       No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left    Right     Left       Left   Right     Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          0                            0                         0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                         0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                        16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                      Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                           2                           2                         4                         4
Permitted Phases                  2                            2                        4                         4
Detector Phase                    2        2                   2       2                4        4                4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              59.0     59.0              59.0       59.0             26.0     26.0             26.0     26.0
Total Split (s)                59.0     59.0      0.0     59.0       59.0     0.0     26.0     26.0     0.0     26.0     26.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              69.4%    69.4%     0.0%    69.4%      69.4%    0.0%    30.6%    30.6%    0.0%    30.6%    30.6%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              54.0     54.0              54.0       54.0             21.0     21.0             21.0     21.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0        1.0              1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                  3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                C-Max C-Max                  Max      Max              Max      Max
Walk Time (s)                   7.0   7.0                  7.0   7.0                  7.0      7.0              7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            10.0  10.0                 10.0  10.0                 12.0     12.0             12.0     12.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5     5                    5     5                    5        5                5        5

James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                Page 9
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
5: JAMES ST & CATHERINE ST                                                                                        10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL    WBT      WBR         NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Act Effct Green (s)                     56.0                    56.0                       23.0                23.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.66                    0.66                       0.27                0.27
v/c Ratio                               0.31                    0.31                       0.91                0.32
Control Delay                            3.4                     6.6                       58.6                24.2
Queue Delay                              0.0                     0.0                        0.0                 0.0
Total Delay                              3.4                     6.6                       58.6                24.2
LOS                                        A                       A                          E                   C
Approach Delay                           3.4                     6.6                       58.6                24.2
Approach LOS                               A                       A                          E                   C
Queue Length 50th (ft)                    22                      42                        122                  41
Queue Length 95th (ft)                    26                      59                       #235                  76
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 375                      804                        272                255
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                    2117                     1927                       395                 491
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0                        0                          0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn                     0                        0                          0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                       0                        0                          0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.31                     0.31                       0.91                0.32
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 6 (7%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 85
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.91
Intersection Signal Delay: 17.5                             Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 83.0%                     ICU Level of Service E
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

Splits and Phases:   5: JAMES ST & CATHERINE ST




James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                               Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                       Page 10
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                                                                       10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL        WBT     WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    11      621       11       11        491      62       62      425      88       39      187      28
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900      1900     1900      1900     1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900
Lane Util. Factor             0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95       0.95    0.95     0.95     0.95    0.95     0.95     0.95    0.95
Ped Bike Factor                        1.00                         1.00                      0.99                      1.00
Frt                                   0.997                        0.984                     0.977                     0.983
Flt Protected                         0.999                        0.999                     0.995                     0.992
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0   3523          0          0   3465        0        0    3421        0        0    3440        0
Flt Permitted                         0.942                        0.938                     0.879                     0.777
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0   3322         0           0   3254        0        0    3019        0        0    2691        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                         Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                          2                          18                        32                        20
Link Speed (mph)                         30                           30                        30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      884                         1883                      1359                       423
Travel Time (s)                         20.1                        42.8                      30.9                       9.6
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              17                12         12              17       19               27       27               19
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                          2                         1
Peak Hour Factor               0.85     0.85     0.85    0.85       0.85    0.85     0.85     0.85    0.85     0.85     0.85     0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                  13      731       13      13        578      73       73      500     104       46      220       33
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      757         0       0        664        0       0      677        0       0      299        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No       No       No         No      No       No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left    Right     Left       Left   Right     Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          0                            0                         0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                         0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                        16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                      Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                           1                           1                         2                         2
Permitted Phases                  1                            1                        2                         2
Detector Phase                    1        1                   1       1                2        2                2        2
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              19.0     19.0              19.0       19.0             26.0     26.0             26.0     26.0
Total Split (s)                19.0     19.0      0.0     19.0       19.0     0.0     26.0     26.0     0.0     26.0     26.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              27.1%    27.1%     0.0%    27.1%      27.1%    0.0%    37.1%    37.1%    0.0%    37.1%    37.1%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              14.0     14.0              14.0       14.0             21.0     21.0             21.0     21.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0        1.0              1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                      Lead     Lead              Lead       Lead               Lag      Lag              Lag      Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0      3.0               3.0        3.0              3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Min    C-Min             C-Min      C-Min             Max      Max              Max      Max
Walk Time (s)
Flash Dont Walk (s)
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)

James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                               Page 11
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                 10/7/2011



Lane Group                      ø3
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
Lane Util. Factor
Ped Bike Factor
Frt
Flt Protected
Satd. Flow (prot)
Flt Permitted
Satd. Flow (perm)
Right Turn on Red
Satd. Flow (RTOR)
Link Speed (mph)
Link Distance (ft)
Travel Time (s)
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)
Peak Hour Factor
Adj. Flow (vph)
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
Enter Blocked Intersection
Lane Alignment
Median Width(ft)
Link Offset(ft)
Crosswalk Width(ft)
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor
Turn Type
Protected Phases                  3
Permitted Phases
Detector Phase
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0
Minimum Split (s)              25.0
Total Split (s)                25.0
Total Split (%)                36%
Maximum Green (s)              22.0
Yellow Time (s)                 3.0
All-Red Time (s)                0.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)
Total Lost Time (s)
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0
Recall Mode                   None
Walk Time (s)                   7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            15.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5

James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Evening Peak Hour   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                           Page 12
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                                                               10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR          NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Act Effct Green (s)                    36.0                       36.0                       23.0                23.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                     0.51                       0.51                       0.33                0.33
v/c Ratio                              0.44                       0.39                       0.67                0.33
Control Delay                          15.8                       21.9                       23.1                17.7
Queue Delay                              0.0                       0.0                        0.0                 0.0
Total Delay                            15.8                       21.9                       23.1                17.7
LOS                                        B                         C                          C                   B
Approach Delay                         15.8                       21.9                       23.1                17.7
Approach LOS                               B                         C                          C                   B
Queue Length 50th (ft)                   55                         72                         84                  31
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 #178                       #150                        112                  48
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 804                       1803                       1279                343
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                    1710                       1682                       1013                898
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0                          0                          0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn                     0                          0                          0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                       0                          0                          0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.44                       0.39                       0.67                0.33
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 70
Actuated Cycle Length: 70
Offset: 40 (57%), Referenced to phase 1:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 70
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.67
Intersection Signal Delay: 19.8                               Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 65.4%                       ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

Splits and Phases:   6: JAMES ST & LODI ST




James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                 Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                         Page 13
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                 10/7/2011



Lane Group                      ø3
Act Effct Green (s)
Actuated g/C Ratio
v/c Ratio
Control Delay
Queue Delay
Total Delay
LOS
Approach Delay
Approach LOS
Queue Length 50th (ft)
Queue Length 95th (ft)
Internal Link Dist (ft)
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
Starvation Cap Reductn
Spillback Cap Reductn
Storage Cap Reductn
Reduced v/c Ratio
Intersection Summary




James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Evening Peak Hour   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                           Page 14
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
7: JAMES ST & OAK ST                                                                                                        10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL        WBT     WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    25      688       35       55        448      21       62       91      45       25      141      54
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900      1900     1900      1900     1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900
Lane Util. Factor             0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95       0.95    0.95     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                        1.00                         1.00                      0.99                      0.99
Frt                                   0.993                        0.994                     0.969                     0.967
Flt Protected                         0.998                        0.995                     0.985                     0.994
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0   3497          0          0   3494        0        0    1767        0        0    1780        0
Flt Permitted                         0.927                        0.815                     0.743                     0.952
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0   3247         0           0   2859        0        0    1330        0        0    1703        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                         Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                        10                            9                       25                        28
Link Speed (mph)                         30                           30                       30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                     1883                         1028                      495                       602
Travel Time (s)                        42.8                         23.4                      11.3                      13.7
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              11                19         19              11       12               15       15               12
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 2                          4
Peak Hour Factor               0.90     0.90     0.90    0.90       0.90    0.90     0.90     0.90    0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90
Adj. Flow (vph)                  28      764       39      61        498      23       69      101      50       28      157       60
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      831         0       0        582        0       0      220        0       0      245        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No       No       No         No      No       No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left    Right     Left       Left   Right     Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          0                            0                         0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                         0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                        16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                      Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                           2                           2                         4                         4
Permitted Phases                  2                            2                        4                         4
Detector Phase                    2        2                   2       2                4        4                4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              39.0     39.0              39.0       39.0             31.0     31.0             31.0     31.0
Total Split (s)                39.0     39.0      0.0     39.0       39.0     0.0     31.0     31.0     0.0     31.0     31.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              55.7%    55.7%     0.0%    55.7%      55.7%    0.0%    44.3%    44.3%    0.0%    44.3%    44.3%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              34.0     34.0              34.0       34.0             26.0     26.0             26.0     26.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0        1.0              1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                  3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                C-Max C-Max                 None     None             None     None
Walk Time (s)                   7.0   7.0                  7.0   7.0                  7.0      7.0              7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)             9.0   9.0                  9.0   9.0                 13.0     13.0             13.0     13.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5     5                    5     5                    5        5                5        5

James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                               Page 15
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
7: JAMES ST & OAK ST                                                                                                10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR          NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Act Effct Green (s)                    47.6                       47.6                       16.4                16.4
Actuated g/C Ratio                     0.68                       0.68                       0.23                0.23
v/c Ratio                              0.38                       0.30                       0.66                0.58
Control Delay                          10.2                        8.5                       30.8                25.9
Queue Delay                              0.0                       0.0                        0.0                 0.0
Total Delay                            10.2                        8.5                       30.8                25.9
LOS                                        B                         A                          C                   C
Approach Delay                         10.2                        8.5                       30.8                25.9
Approach LOS                               B                         A                          C                   C
Queue Length 50th (ft)                   89                         31                         52                  56
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  152                        107                         88                  91
Internal Link Dist (ft)                1803                        948                       415                 522
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                    2211                       1947                       547                 698
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0                          0                          0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn                     0                          0                          0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                       0                          0                          0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.38                       0.30                       0.40                0.35
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 70
Actuated Cycle Length: 70
Offset: 43 (61%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 70
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.66
Intersection Signal Delay: 14.1                               Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 69.2%                       ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   7: JAMES ST & OAK ST




James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                 Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                         Page 16
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
8: JAMES ST & DEWITT ST                                                                                                    10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL       WBT     WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    45      706        7        1       460     113       20        0       5      149        3      44
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900      1900     1900     1900     1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900
Lane Util. Factor             0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95      0.95    0.95     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                        1.00                        0.99                      0.99                      0.98
Frt                                   0.999                       0.970                     0.975                     0.970
Flt Protected                         0.997                                                 0.961                     0.963
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0   3524          0         0   3401        0        0    1735        0        0    1734        0
Flt Permitted                         0.890                       0.954                     0.805                     0.760
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0   3144         0          0   3245        0        0    1451        0        0    1349        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                        Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                         2                          77                         5                       22
Link Speed (mph)                         30                          30                        30                       30
Link Distance (ft)                     1028                         271                       427                      658
Travel Time (s)                        23.4                         6.2                       9.7                      15.0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              12                 3         3              12        3               18       18                 3
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 3                         2                                                    2
Peak Hour Factor               0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                  49      767        8       1       500     123       22        0       5      162        3       48
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      824         0       0       624        0       0       27        0       0      213        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No       No       No        No      No       No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left    Right     Left      Left   Right     Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          0                           0                         0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                           0                           0                         0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                          16                        16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                      Perm                       Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                           2                          2                         4                         4
Permitted Phases                  2                           2                        4                         4
Detector Phase                    2        2                  2       2                4        4                4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0      4.0               4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              45.0     45.0              45.0      45.0             25.0     25.0             25.0     25.0
Total Split (s)                45.0     45.0      0.0     45.0      45.0     0.0     25.0     25.0     0.0     25.0     25.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              64.3%    64.3%     0.0%    64.3%     64.3%    0.0%    35.7%    35.7%    0.0%    35.7%    35.7%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              40.0     40.0              40.0      40.0             20.0     20.0             20.0     20.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0      4.0               4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0       1.0              1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0      -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                  3.0   3.0                 3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                C-Max C-Max                None     None             None     None
Walk Time (s)                   7.0   7.0                  7.0   7.0                 7.0      7.0              7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)             9.0   9.0                  9.0   9.0                13.0     13.0             13.0     13.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5     5                    5     5                   5        5                5        5

James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                              Page 17
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
8: JAMES ST & DEWITT ST                                                                                             10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR         NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Act Effct Green (s)                     47.2                      47.2                       16.8                16.8
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.67                      0.67                       0.24                0.24
v/c Ratio                               0.39                      0.28                       0.08                0.63
Control Delay                            4.2                       6.5                       16.3                28.9
Queue Delay                              0.0                       0.0                        0.0                 0.0
Total Delay                              4.2                       6.5                       16.3                28.9
LOS                                        A                         A                          B                   C
Approach Delay                           4.2                       6.5                       16.3                28.9
Approach LOS                               A                         A                          B                   C
Queue Length 50th (ft)                    12                        19                          5                  49
Queue Length 95th (ft)                    16                        71                         15                  86
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 948                        191                       347                 578
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                    2122                       2215                       459                 439
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0                          0                          0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn                     0                          0                          0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                       0                          0                          0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.39                       0.28                       0.06                0.49
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 70
Actuated Cycle Length: 70
Offset: 68 (97%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 70
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.63
Intersection Signal Delay: 8.3                                Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 60.0%                       ICU Level of Service B
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   8: JAMES ST & DEWITT ST




James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                 Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                         Page 18
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
9: JAMES ST & SEDGEWICK ST                                                                 10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT       NBL     NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    733     127       24      488        86      26
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900     1900     1900     1900     1900     1900
Lane Util. Factor              0.95    0.95     0.95     0.95      1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                0.99                       1.00     0.99
Frt                           0.978                               0.968
Flt Protected                                           0.998     0.963
Satd. Flow (prot)             3434         0        0   3532      1730        0
Flt Permitted                                           0.903     0.963
Satd. Flow (perm)             3434        0         0   3195      1712        0
Right Turn on Red                       Yes                                 Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)               54                                   22
Link Speed (mph)                30                         30        30
Link Distance (ft)             271                       1437       521
Travel Time (s)                6.2                       32.7      11.8
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                       15      15                 12       2
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                        2                                  1
Peak Hour Factor               0.98     0.98     0.98    0.98      0.98    0.98
Adj. Flow (vph)                748      130        24     498        88      27
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)          878        0        0      522       115       0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No       No       No        No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left    Right     Left     Left      Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                 0                          0        12
Link Offset(ft)                  0                          0         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)             16                         16        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00    1.00
Turn Type                                       Perm
Protected Phases                  2                           2       4
Permitted Phases                                    2
Detector Phase                    2                 2         2       4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0               4.0      4.0       4.0
Minimum Split (s)              47.0              47.0     47.0      23.0
Total Split (s)                47.0      0.0     47.0     47.0      23.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              67.1%     0.0%    67.1%    67.1%     32.9%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              42.0              42.0     42.0      18.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0               4.0      4.0       4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0               1.0      1.0       1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0      -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0               3.0   3.0         3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max             C-Max C-Max         Max
Walk Time (s)                   7.0               7.0   7.0         7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)             9.0               9.0   9.0        11.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5                 5     5           5

James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                        Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                Page 19
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
9: JAMES ST & SEDGEWICK ST                                                                     10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      NBL      NBR
Act Effct Green (s)            44.0                      44.0     20.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.63                      0.63     0.29
v/c Ratio                      0.40                      0.26     0.23
Control Delay                   8.7                       5.6     17.0
Queue Delay                     0.2                       0.0      0.0
Total Delay                     8.9                       5.6     17.0
LOS                               A                         A        B
Approach Delay                  8.9                       5.6     17.0
Approach LOS                      A                         A        B
Queue Length 50th (ft)         109                         26       20
Queue Length 95th (ft)           82                        36       46
Internal Link Dist (ft)        191                       1357      441
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)           2179                       2008      510
Starvation Cap Reductn         542                          0        0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0                          0        0
Storage Cap Reductn              0                          0        0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.54                       0.26     0.23
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 70
Actuated Cycle Length: 70
Offset: 12 (17%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 70
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.40
Intersection Signal Delay: 8.4                                Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 52.9%                       ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   9: JAMES ST & SEDGEWICK ST




James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                            Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                    Page 20
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
10: JAMES ST & WILSON ST                                                                   10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT       NBL     NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    752       7       23       496       16      18
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900     1900     1900     1900     1900     1900
Lane Util. Factor              0.95    0.95     0.95     0.95      1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                1.00                       1.00     1.00
Frt                           0.999                               0.927
Flt Protected                                           0.998     0.978
Satd. Flow (prot)             3534         0        0   3532      1689        0
Flt Permitted                                           0.908     0.978
Satd. Flow (perm)             3534        0         0   3212      1688        0
Right Turn on Red                       Yes                                 Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                2                                   20
Link Speed (mph)                30                         30        30
Link Distance (ft)            1437                       1093       701
Travel Time (s)               32.7                       24.8      15.9
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                       17      17                  1
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                        5
Peak Hour Factor               0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92      0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                817         8       25     539        17      20
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)          825        0        0      564        37       0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No       No       No        No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left    Right     Left     Left      Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                12                         12        12
Link Offset(ft)                  0                          0         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)             16                         16        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00    1.00
Turn Type                                       Perm
Protected Phases                  2                           2       4
Permitted Phases                                    2
Detector Phase                    2                 2         2       4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0               4.0      4.0       4.0
Minimum Split (s)              45.0              45.0     45.0      25.0
Total Split (s)                45.0      0.0     45.0     45.0      25.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              64.3%     0.0%    64.3%    64.3%     35.7%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              40.0              40.0     40.0      20.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0               4.0      4.0       4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0               1.0      1.0       1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0      -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0               3.0   3.0         3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max             C-Max C-Max        None
Walk Time (s)                   7.0               7.0   7.0         7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            10.0              10.0  10.0        13.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5                 5     5           5

James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                        Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                Page 21
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
10: JAMES ST & WILSON ST                                                                         10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT        NBL      NBR
Act Effct Green (s)           58.6                       58.6       10.8
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.84                       0.84       0.15
v/c Ratio                     0.28                       0.21       0.13
Control Delay                 10.4                        3.0       14.8
Queue Delay                     0.0                       0.0        0.0
Total Delay                   10.4                        3.0       14.8
LOS                               B                         A          B
Approach Delay                10.4                        3.0       14.8
Approach LOS                      B                         A          B
Queue Length 50th (ft)         110                         13          5
Queue Length 95th (ft)         162                         54         16
Internal Link Dist (ft)       1357                       1013        621
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)           2957                       2687        545
Starvation Cap Reductn           0                          0          0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0                          0          0
Storage Cap Reductn              0                          0          0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.28                       0.21       0.07
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 70
Actuated Cycle Length: 70
Offset: 0 (0%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 70
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.28
Intersection Signal Delay: 7.6                                  Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 40.7%                         ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   10: JAMES ST & WILSON ST




James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                              Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                      Page 22
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
11: JAMES ST & TEALL AVE                                                                                                     10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL        WBT      WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                   198      425      147      154        315       28      104      398      84       21      437     100
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900     1900     1900     1900       1900     1900     1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)            160                 0       125                  0        0                0        0                0
Storage Lanes                    1                 0         1                  0        0                0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)               25                25        25                 25       25               25       25               25
Lane Util. Factor             1.00     0.95     0.95     1.00       0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95    0.95     0.95     0.95    0.95
Ped Bike Factor               0.99     0.99               0.99      1.00                       1.00                      0.99
Frt                                   0.961                        0.988                      0.979                     0.973
Flt Protected                 0.950                     0.950                                 0.991                     0.998
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770     3363         0   1770        3487        0        0    3425        0        0    3394        0
Flt Permitted                 0.950                     0.950                                 0.701                     0.919
Satd. Flow (perm)             1746     3363        0    1746        3487        0        0    2423        0        0    3125        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                          Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                        37                            7                         17                        18
Link Speed (mph)                         30                           30                         30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                     1093                         2248                        180                       188
Travel Time (s)                        24.8                         51.1                        4.1                       4.3
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)               9                13         13                9       24                2        2               24
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                           1
Peak Hour Factor               0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92        0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                215      462      160     167         342       30      113      433      91       23      475      109
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)          215      622        0      167        372        0        0      637       0        0      607       0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No       No       No         No       No       No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left    Right     Left       Left    Right     Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                         12                           12                          0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                          0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                         16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00        1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                      Prot                      Prot                        pm+pt                     Perm
Protected Phases                  1        6                5           2                7        4                         8
Permitted Phases                                                                         4                         8
Detector Phase                    1        6                   5        2                7        4                8        8
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             5.0      5.0               5.0         5.0              5.0      5.0              5.0      5.0
Minimum Split (s)               9.5     22.0               9.5       22.0              10.0     22.0             22.0     22.0
Total Split (s)                25.0     50.0      0.0     25.0       50.0      0.0     25.0     65.0     0.0     40.0     40.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              17.9%    35.7%     0.0%    17.9%      35.7%     0.0%    17.9%    46.4%    0.0%    28.6%    28.6%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              20.5     45.0              20.5       45.0              20.0     60.0             35.0     35.0
Yellow Time (s)                 3.5      4.0               3.5         4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0         1.0              1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             2.5      3.0      3.0      2.5        3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                      Lead       Lag             Lead         Lag             Lead                        Lag      Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0      3.0               3.0        3.0               3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                   None      Min             None         Min             None     None             None     None

James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                Page 23
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
11: JAMES ST & TEALL AVE                                                                                               10/7/2011



Lane Group                       EBL       EBT    EBR    WBL        WBT     WBR          NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL     SBT     SBR
Walk Time (s)                               7.0                       7.0                       7.0          7.0     7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)                       10.0                      10.0                       10.0         10.0    10.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)                       5                         5                         5            5       5
Act Effct Green (s)              18.9     24.9           16.6       22.6                       36.3                 36.3
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.22     0.29           0.19       0.26                       0.42                 0.42
v/c Ratio                        0.56     0.63           0.49       0.41                       0.62                 0.46
Control Delay                    40.7     30.2           41.1       29.3                       23.2                 19.6
Queue Delay                       0.0       0.0           0.0        0.0                        0.0                  0.0
Total Delay                      40.7     30.2           41.1       29.3                       23.2                 19.6
LOS                                 D        C              D          C                          C                    B
Approach Delay                            32.9                      32.9                       23.2                 19.6
Approach LOS                                 C                         C                          C                    B
Queue Length 50th (ft)            68        96             54         58                         90                   78
Queue Length 95th (ft)           165       183            130        110                       168                   143
Internal Link Dist (ft)                   1013                      2168                       100                   108
Turn Bay Length (ft)             160                     125
Base Capacity (vph)              490      1961           490        2020                       1811                1558
Starvation Cap Reductn              0        0              0          0                          0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn               0        0              0          0                          0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                 0        0              0          0                          0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                0.44     0.32           0.34       0.18                       0.35                0.39
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 140
Actuated Cycle Length: 86.9
Natural Cycle: 65
Control Type: Actuated-Uncoordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.63
Intersection Signal Delay: 27.5                                 Intersection LOS: C
Intersection Capacity Utilization 71.7%                         ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:    11: JAMES ST & TEALL AVE




James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                    Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                            Page 24
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                                                                         10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL         WBT     WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     0      478       52       12         392       0       35        0      64      274       60      70
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900     1900    1900      1900        1900    1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900
Lane Util. Factor             1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00        1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                                 0.97                  1.00                     0.98                      0.98
Frt                                            0.850                                          0.913                     0.977
Flt Protected                                                       0.999                     0.982                     0.967
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0    1863     1583           0    1861        0        0    1639        0        0    1733        0
Flt Permitted                                                       0.985                     0.860                     0.730
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0    1863     1529           0    1834        0        0    1435        0        0    1302        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                          Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                                 53                                             65                         9
Link Speed (mph)                         30                            30                        30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                     2248                           208                       239                       142
Travel Time (s)                        51.1                           4.7                       5.4                       3.2
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              22                19         19               22       39                3        3                39
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                           5                                                    6
Peak Hour Factor               0.98     0.98     0.98    0.98        0.98    0.98     0.98     0.98    0.98     0.98     0.98     0.98
Adj. Flow (vph)                   0      488       53      12         400       0       36        0      65      280       61       71
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      488        53       0         412        0       0      101        0       0      412        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No       No       No          No      No       No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left    Right     Left        Left   Right     Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                         12                            12                         0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                           0                             0                         0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                            16                        16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00        1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turning Speed (mph)              15                 9      15                   9       15                9       15                 9
Turn Type                                       Perm    Perm                         Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                       124                           124                          3                         3
Permitted Phases                                124      124                             3                         3
Detector Phase                         124      124      124         124                 3        3                3        3
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)                                                                     8.0      8.0              8.0      8.0
Minimum Split (s)                                                                      22.0     22.0             22.0     22.0
Total Split (s)                 0.0     78.0     78.0     78.0        78.0     0.0     30.0     30.0     0.0     30.0     30.0     0.0
Total Split (%)               0.0%    72.2%    72.2%    72.2%       72.2%    0.0%    27.8%    27.8%    0.0%    27.8%    27.8%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)                                                                      25.5     25.5             25.5     25.5
Yellow Time (s)                                                                         3.5      3.5              3.5      3.5
All-Red Time (s)                                                                        1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)            0.0      0.0      0.0         0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Total Lost Time (s)             4.0      4.5      4.5         4.5     4.5      4.0      4.5      4.5     4.0      4.5      4.5     4.0
Lead/Lag                                                                              Lead     Lead             Lead     Lead
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)                                                                  3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                                                                          None     None             None     None
Walk Time (s)                                                                          7.0      7.0              7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)                                                                   10.0     10.0             10.0     10.0

James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                        Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                Page 25
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                  10/7/2011



Lane Group                      ø1       ø2       ø4
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
Lane Util. Factor
Ped Bike Factor
Frt
Flt Protected
Satd. Flow (prot)
Flt Permitted
Satd. Flow (perm)
Right Turn on Red
Satd. Flow (RTOR)
Link Speed (mph)
Link Distance (ft)
Travel Time (s)
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)
Peak Hour Factor
Adj. Flow (vph)
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
Enter Blocked Intersection
Lane Alignment
Median Width(ft)
Link Offset(ft)
Crosswalk Width(ft)
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor
Turning Speed (mph)
Turn Type
Protected Phases                  1        2        4
Permitted Phases
Detector Phase
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             5.0     10.0      5.0
Minimum Split (s)               9.5     22.0      9.5
Total Split (s)                13.0     40.0     25.0
Total Split (%)                12%      37%      23%
Maximum Green (s)               8.5     35.5     20.5
Yellow Time (s)                 3.5      3.5      3.5
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)
Total Lost Time (s)
Lead/Lag                      Lead      Lag      Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0       3.0     3.0
Recall Mode                   None       Min    None
Walk Time (s)                            7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)                     10.0

James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Evening Peak Hour   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                           Page 26
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                                                              10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL    WBT      WBR         NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL     SBT    SBR
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)                                                                5      5           5       5
Act Effct Green (s)                    70.6      70.6            70.6                      25.5                25.5
Actuated g/C Ratio                     0.67      0.67            0.67                      0.24                0.24
v/c Ratio                              0.39      0.05            0.33                      0.25                1.28
Control Delay                           8.7       1.7             2.2                      16.1               180.7
Queue Delay                             0.3       0.0             0.6                       0.0               404.9
Total Delay                             9.0       1.7             2.7                      16.1               585.6
LOS                                       A         A               A                         B                   F
Approach Delay                          8.3                       2.7                      16.1               585.6
Approach LOS                              A                         A                         B                   F
Queue Length 50th (ft)                   89         0               9                        13               ~249
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  128         8              12                        44                #382
Internal Link Dist (ft)                2168                      128                       159                   62
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                    1262     1053            1242                       398                 323
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0        0             463                          0                134
Spillback Cap Reductn                   315        0                0                        10                   1
Storage Cap Reductn                       0        0                0                         0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.52     0.05             0.53                      0.26                2.18
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 108
Actuated Cycle Length: 105.2
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Uncoordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 1.28
Intersection Signal Delay: 169.5                            Intersection LOS: F
Intersection Capacity Utilization 67.6%                     ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15
~ Volume exceeds capacity, queue is theoretically infinite.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

Splits and Phases:   12: JAMES ST & Grant




James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                               Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                       Page 27
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                  10/7/2011



Lane Group                      ø1       ø2       ø4
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)                   5
Act Effct Green (s)
Actuated g/C Ratio
v/c Ratio
Control Delay
Queue Delay
Total Delay
LOS
Approach Delay
Approach LOS
Queue Length 50th (ft)
Queue Length 95th (ft)
Internal Link Dist (ft)
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
Starvation Cap Reductn
Spillback Cap Reductn
Storage Cap Reductn
Reduced v/c Ratio
Intersection Summary




James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Evening Peak Hour   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                           Page 28
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
13: James S & Walgreens                                                                                                   10/7/2011



Lane Group                    EBL2      EBL      EBT     WBT         WBR     WBR2     SBL     SBR     SBR2    SEL     SER       ø3
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    76        91     649      377         322       8       32      27      10       0       0
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900     1900     1900     1900       1900     1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)                       75                          150                0       0               0       0
Storage Lanes                              1                            1                1       0               0       0
Taper Length (ft)                         25                           25               25      25              25      25
Lane Util. Factor              1.00    1.00      1.00    1.00        1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                         0.98                         0.83             0.97
Frt                                                                 0.850            0.928
Flt Protected                         0.950                                          0.977
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0   1770      1863     1863        1583       0    1689        0       0       0       0
Flt Permitted                         0.412                                          0.977
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0     750     1863     1863        1319       0    1643        0       0       0       0
Right Turn on Red                                                             Yes                      Yes             Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                                                       1                7
Link Speed (mph)                                  30      30                            30                      30
Link Distance (ft)                               208     618                           139                     186
Travel Time (s)                                  4.7     14.0                          3.2                     4.2
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              22                                    22       22      22
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                                     5        5
Peak Hour Factor               0.98     0.98     0.98    0.98        0.98     0.98    0.98    0.98    0.98    0.98    0.98
Adj. Flow (vph)                  78       93      662     385         329        8      33      28      10       0       0
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      171      662      385        337         0      71        0       0      0       0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No       No       No         No       No       No      No      No      No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left     Left     Left      Right    Right     Left   Right   Right    Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                                  12       12                           12                       0
Link Offset(ft)                                    0        0                            0                       0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                               16       16                           16                      16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00   1.00       1.00    1.00        1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Turning Speed (mph)               15     15                             9        9      15       9       9      15       9
Turn Type                    custom custom                          Perm
Protected Phases                          1     123            2                         4                                       3
Permitted Phases                 23     23                              2
Detector Phase                   23       1     123            2        2                4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)                      5.0              10.0        10.0              5.0                                     8.0
Minimum Split (s)                        9.5              22.0        22.0              9.5                                    22.0
Total Split (s)                70.0     13.0     83.0     40.0        40.0     0.0     25.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    30.0
Total Split (%)              64.8%    12.0%    76.9%    37.0%       37.0%    0.0%    23.1%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%     28%
Maximum Green (s)                        8.5              35.5        35.5             20.5                                    25.5
Yellow Time (s)                          3.5               3.5         3.5              3.5                                     3.5
All-Red Time (s)                         1.0               1.0         1.0              1.0                                     1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)            0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0         0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0
Total Lost Time (s)             4.5      4.5      4.5      4.5         4.5     4.0      4.5     4.0     4.0    4.0      4.0
Lead/Lag                               Lead                Lag         Lag              Lag                                   Lead
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)                    3.0                  3.0     3.0              3.0                                      3.0

James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                              Page 29
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
13: James S & Walgreens                                                                                             10/7/2011



Lane Group                    EBL2      EBL      EBT     WBT     WBR     WBR2      SBL       SBR   SBR2   SEL    SER       ø3
Recall Mode                            None               Min     Min             None                                   None
Walk Time (s)                                              7.0    7.0                                                      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)                                      10.0    10.0                                                     10.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)                                      5      5                                                        5
Act Effct Green (s)                     73.0    77.5     34.4    34.4                 18.7
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.69    0.74     0.33    0.33                 0.18
v/c Ratio                               0.28    0.48     0.63    0.78                 0.23
Control Delay                            6.9     9.4     35.8    46.4                 35.8
Queue Delay                              0.4     1.5      0.0     0.0                  0.0
Total Delay                              7.3    11.0     35.8    46.4                 35.8
LOS                                        A       B        D       D                    D
Approach Delay                                  10.2     40.7                         35.8
Approach LOS                                       B        D                            D
Queue Length 50th (ft)                   32      148      152     142                   26
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  m41    m161       223    #239                   54
Internal Link Dist (ft)                          128      538                           59                106
Turn Bay Length (ft)                      75                       150
Base Capacity (vph)                     603     1373      630      446                335
Starvation Cap Reductn                  147      498        0        0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn                      0       0        0        0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                        0       0        0        0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                       0.38    0.76     0.61     0.76                0.21
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 108
Actuated Cycle Length: 105.2
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Uncoordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 1.28
Intersection Signal Delay: 24.9                              Intersection LOS: C
Intersection Capacity Utilization 45.8%                      ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   13: James S & Walgreens




James Street - 2009 Existing Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                 Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                         Page 30
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
1: JAMES ST & OSWEGO BLVD                                                                                                   10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL     EBT      EBR      WBL        WBT     WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    12      551     206        89        465       6      166        1       7        0        0       0
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900     1900      1900      1900     1900     1900    1900     1900     1900     1900    1900
Lane Util. Factor             0.95     0.95    0.95      0.95       0.95    0.95     0.95     0.95    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                        0.99                         1.00                      1.00
Frt                                   0.960                        0.998                     0.988
Flt Protected                         0.999                        0.992            0.950    0.957
Satd. Flow (prot)                0    3364         0           0   3503        0    1681     1668        0        0     1863       0
Flt Permitted                         0.945                        0.722            0.950    0.950
Satd. Flow (perm)                0    3183         0           0   2548        0    1681     1655        0        0     1863       0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                         Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                        81                            2                         6
Link Speed (mph)                         30                          30                         30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      170                         537                        242                       134
Travel Time (s)                         3.9                         12.2                       5.5                       3.0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              2                19       19                  2       14               23       23               14
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                1                           4                         1
Peak Hour Factor              0.89     0.89     0.89     0.89       0.89    0.89     0.89     0.89    0.89     0.89     0.89     0.89
Adj. Flow (vph)                 13      619      231      100        522       7      187        1       8        0        0        0
Shared Lane Traffic (%)                                                              47%
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      863        0        0        629        0      99       97        0       0        0       0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No      No        No         No      No       No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left   Right      Left       Left   Right     Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                         12                           12                        12                        12
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                         0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                        16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turning Speed (mph)              15                9       15                  9       15                9       15                 9
Turn Type                     Perm                      Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                          1                            1                         2                         3
Permitted Phases                 1                             1                        2                         3
Detector Phase                   1        1                    1       1                2        2                3        3
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              37.0     37.0              37.0       37.0             25.0     25.0             18.0     18.0
Total Split (s)                37.0     37.0     0.0      37.0       37.0     0.0     25.0     25.0     0.0     18.0     18.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              46.3%    46.3%    0.0%     46.3%      46.3%    0.0%    31.3%    31.3%    0.0%    22.5%    22.5%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              32.0     32.0              32.0       32.0             20.0     20.0             13.0     13.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0        1.0              1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                      Lead     Lead              Lead       Lead               Lag      Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                  3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                C-Max C-Max                  Max      Max             None     None
Walk Time (s)                   7.0   7.0                  7.0   7.0                  7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            15.0  15.0                 15.0  15.0                 12.0     12.0

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                Page 1
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
1: JAMES ST & OSWEGO BLVD                                                                                            10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR          NBL    NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)          5         5               5         5                    5      5
Act Effct Green (s)                     52.0                      52.0                 22.0   22.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.65                      0.65                 0.28   0.28
v/c Ratio                               0.41                      0.38                 0.21   0.21
Control Delay                            6.7                       5.9                 23.9   22.4
Queue Delay                              0.0                       0.0                  0.0    0.0
Total Delay                              6.7                       5.9                 23.9   22.4
LOS                                        A                         A                    C      C
Approach Delay                           6.7                       5.9                        23.2
Approach LOS                               A                         A                           C
Queue Length 50th (ft)                    57                        25                  27      25
Queue Length 95th (ft)                    78                        48                  53      51
Internal Link Dist (ft)                   90                       457                         162                  54
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                    2097                       1657                 462    459
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0                          0                    0      0
Spillback Cap Reductn                     0                          0                    0      0
Storage Cap Reductn                       0                          0                    0      0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.41                       0.38                 0.21   0.21
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 70 (88%), Referenced to phase 1:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.41
Intersection Signal Delay: 8.3                                Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 66.8%                       ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   1: JAMES ST & OSWEGO BLVD




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                 Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                           Page 2
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
2: JAMES ST & STATE ST                                                                                                       10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL     EBT      EBR      WBL        WBT      WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    78      425      55       160        503      169        35     230      40      122      419      22
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900     1900    1900      1900       1900    1900      1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)            150                0         0                 150       120               0       120               0
Storage Lanes                    1                0         0                   1         1               0         1               0
Taper Length (ft)               25               25        25                  25        25              25        25              25
Lane Util. Factor             1.00     0.95    0.95      0.95       0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95    0.95     1.00     0.95    0.95
Ped Bike Factor               1.00     0.99                         1.00     0.98      0.99    1.00              0.99    1.00
Frt                                   0.983                                 0.850             0.978                     0.992
Flt Protected                0.950                                 0.988             0.950                     0.950
Satd. Flow (prot)            1770      3458        0           0   3497      1583    1770      3450       0    1770      3505       0
Flt Permitted                0.378                                 0.589             0.478                     0.467
Satd. Flow (perm)              702     3458        0           0   2078      1554      879     3450       0      863     3505       0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                          Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                       17                                    184                25                         9
Link Speed (mph)                        30                           30                          30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                     537                          777                         389                       292
Travel Time (s)                        12.2                         17.7                        8.8                       6.6
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              7                28       28                   7       17               10       10               17
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                1                            4
Peak Hour Factor              0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92       0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                 85      462       60      174        547      184       38      250      43      133      455       24
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)           85      522        0        0        721     184        38      293        0     133      479        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No      No        No         No      No        No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left   Right      Left       Left   Right      Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                         12                           12                         12                        12
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                          0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                         16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                      pm+pt               Perm     Perm                      pm+pt
Protected Phases                          2                 1          6                          4                3        8
Permitted Phases                 2                          6                   6        4                         8
Detector Phase                   2        2                 1          6        6        4        4                3        8
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              24.0     24.0              14.0       38.0     38.0     28.0     28.0             14.0     42.0
Total Split (s)                24.0     24.0     0.0      14.0       38.0     38.0     28.0     28.0     0.0     14.0     42.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              30.0%    30.0%    0.0%     17.5%      47.5%    47.5%    35.0%    35.0%    0.0%    17.5%    52.5%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              19.0     19.0               9.0       33.0     33.0     23.0     23.0              9.0     37.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0        1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                       Lag      Lag              Lead                           Lag      Lag            Lead
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                 3.0   3.0   3.0              3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                 Max C-Max C-Max              Max      Max              Max      Max

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                 Page 3
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
2: JAMES ST & STATE ST                                                                                              10/7/2011



Lane Group                    EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT      WBR         NBL    NBT    NBR   SBL     SBT     SBR
Walk Time (s)                  7.0      7.0                                                                       7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)           10.0     10.0                                                                      10.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)          5        5                                                                         5
Act Effct Green (s)           21.0     21.0                      35.0    35.0        25.0   25.0         39.0    39.0
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.26     0.26                      0.44    0.44        0.31   0.31         0.49    0.49
v/c Ratio                     0.46     0.57                      0.65    0.23        0.14   0.27         0.24    0.28
Control Delay                 28.0     21.6                      16.1     3.9        21.5   19.6         12.7    12.5
Queue Delay                    0.0      0.0                       0.0     0.0         0.0    0.0          0.0     0.0
Total Delay                   28.0     21.6                      16.1     3.9        21.5   19.6         12.7    12.5
LOS                              C        C                         B       A           C      B            B       B
Approach Delay                         22.5                      13.6                       19.8                 12.5
Approach LOS                              C                         B                          B                    B
Queue Length 50th (ft)          24       78                        72       1          9      35          24       47
Queue Length 95th (ft)          55      112                      134       28         25      56          45       68
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 457                      697                         309                  212
Turn Bay Length (ft)          150                                         150         120                120
Base Capacity (vph)           184      920                      1104      783         275   1095         545    1713
Starvation Cap Reductn           0        0                        0        0           0      0            0      0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0        0                        0        0           0      0            0      0
Storage Cap Reductn              0        0                        0        0           0      0            0      0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.46     0.57                     0.65     0.23        0.14   0.27         0.24   0.28
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 75 (94%), Referenced to phase 2:EBTL and 6:WBTL, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.65
Intersection Signal Delay: 16.4                             Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 66.1%                     ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   2: JAMES ST & STATE ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                          Page 4
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
3: JAMES ST & TOWNSEND ST                                                                                                    10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL     EBT      EBR      WBL        WBT     WBR      NBL      NBT      NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    29      517      41        74        633      71      169      333       59        26     214      30
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900     1900    1900      1900       1900    1900     1900     1900    1900      1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)              0                0         0                  0       105                0       150               0
Storage Lanes                    0                0         0                  0         1                1         1               0
Taper Length (ft)               25               25        25                 25        25               25        25              25
Lane Util. Factor             0.95     0.95    0.95      0.95       0.95    0.95     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                        1.00                         0.99              0.99             0.98      0.99    1.00
Frt                                   0.990                        0.986                              0.850             0.982
Flt Protected                         0.998                        0.995            0.950                      0.950
Satd. Flow (prot)                0    3483         0           0   3457        0    1770      1863     1583    1770      1822       0
Flt Permitted                         0.888                        0.827            0.487                      0.377
Satd. Flow (perm)                0    3098         0           0   2870        0      896     1863     1546      698     1822       0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                         Yes                        Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                       15                           20                                  65                10
Link Speed (mph)                        30                           30                         30                         30
Link Distance (ft)                     777                          459                        200                        317
Travel Time (s)                        17.7                         10.4                       4.5                        7.2
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)             14                19       19                 14       20                12       12               20
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                2                           1
Peak Hour Factor              0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91       0.91    0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91
Adj. Flow (vph)                 32      568       45       81        696      78      186      366       65       29      235       33
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      645        0        0        855        0     186      366       65       29      268        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No      No        No         No      No       No       No      No        No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left   Right      Left       Left   Right     Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          0                            0                        12                         12
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                         0                          0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                        16                         16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                      Perm                        Perm              Perm     Perm
Protected Phases                          2                            2                         4                          4
Permitted Phases                 2                             2                        4                 4        4
Detector Phase                   2        2                    2       2                4        4        4        4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              46.0     46.0              46.0       46.0             34.0     34.0     34.0     34.0     34.0
Total Split (s)                46.0     46.0     0.0      46.0       46.0     0.0     34.0     34.0     34.0     34.0     34.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              57.5%    57.5%    0.0%     57.5%      57.5%    0.0%    42.5%    42.5%    42.5%    42.5%    42.5%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              41.0     41.0              41.0       41.0             29.0     29.0     29.0     29.0     29.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0        1.0              1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                  3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                C-Max C-Max                  Max      Max      Max      Max      Max

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                 Page 5
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
3: JAMES ST & TOWNSEND ST                                                                                              10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR          NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Walk Time (s)                   7.0      7.0              7.0      7.0                  7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0     7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            13.0     13.0             13.0     13.0                 17.0   17.0   17.0   17.0    17.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5        5                5        5                    5      5      5      5       5
Act Effct Green (s)                     43.0                      43.0                 31.0   31.0   31.0   31.0    31.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.54                      0.54                 0.39   0.39   0.39   0.39    0.39
v/c Ratio                               0.39                      0.55                 0.54   0.51   0.10   0.11    0.38
Control Delay                            4.6                       8.0                 25.9   21.7    4.9   17.1    18.8
Queue Delay                              0.0                       0.0                  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0
Total Delay                              4.6                       8.0                 25.9   21.7    4.9   17.1    18.8
LOS                                        A                         A                    C      C      A      B       B
Approach Delay                           4.6                       8.0                        21.2                  18.6
Approach LOS                               A                         A                           C                     B
Queue Length 50th (ft)                     8                        41                  48      93     0      6       61
Queue Length 95th (ft)                    11                        21                  93     146    16     18      103
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 697                        379                         120                   237
Turn Bay Length (ft)                                                                   105                   150
Base Capacity (vph)                    1672                       1552                 347    722    639    270     712
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0                          0                    0      0      0      0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn                     0                          0                    0      0      0      0       0
Storage Cap Reductn                       0                          0                    0      0      0      0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.39                       0.55                 0.54   0.51   0.10   0.11    0.38
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 37 (46%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.55
Intersection Signal Delay: 11.8                               Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 81.4%                       ICU Level of Service D
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   3: JAMES ST & TOWNSEND ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                             Page 6
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
4: JAMES ST & MCBRIDE ST                                                                                                    10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL     EBT      EBR      WBL        WBT     WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    59      531      12        17        749      35       16       42      12       16       20      13
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900     1900      1900      1900     1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900
Lane Util. Factor             0.95     0.95    0.95      0.95       0.95    0.95     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                        1.00                         1.00                      1.00                      1.00
Frt                                   0.997                        0.994                     0.977                     0.965
Flt Protected                         0.995                        0.999                     0.988                     0.984
Satd. Flow (prot)                0    3506         0           0   3503        0        0    1793        0        0    1763        0
Flt Permitted                         0.801                        0.936                     0.944                     0.919
Satd. Flow (perm)                0    2819         0           0   3280        0        0    1713        0        0    1644        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                         Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                         5                          11                         13                        14
Link Speed (mph)                        30                           30                         30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                     459                          455                        383                       324
Travel Time (s)                        10.4                         10.3                       8.7                       7.4
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)             24                22       22                 24        1                4        4                1
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                1                           5
Peak Hour Factor              0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91       0.91    0.91     0.91     0.91    0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91
Adj. Flow (vph)                 65      584       13       19        823      38       18       46      13       18       22       14
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      662        0        0        880        0       0       77        0       0       54        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No      No        No         No      No       No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left   Right      Left       Left   Right     Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          0                            0                         0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                         0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                        16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                      Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                          2                            2                         4                         4
Permitted Phases                 2                             2                        4                         4
Detector Phase                   2        2                    2       2                4        4                4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              55.0     55.0              55.0       55.0             25.0     25.0             25.0     25.0
Total Split (s)                55.0     55.0     0.0      55.0       55.0     0.0     25.0     25.0     0.0     25.0     25.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              68.8%    68.8%    0.0%     68.8%      68.8%    0.0%    31.3%    31.3%    0.0%    31.3%    31.3%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              50.0     50.0              50.0       50.0             20.0     20.0             20.0     20.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0        1.0              1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                  3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                C-Max C-Max                  Max      Max              Max      Max
Walk Time (s)                   7.0   7.0                  7.0   7.0                  7.0      7.0              7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            10.0  10.0                 10.0  10.0                 11.0     11.0             11.0     11.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5     5                    5     5                    5        5                5        5

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                Page 7
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
4: JAMES ST & MCBRIDE ST                                                                                            10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR          NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Act Effct Green (s)                     52.0                      52.0                       22.0                22.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.65                      0.65                       0.28                0.28
v/c Ratio                               0.36                      0.41                       0.16                0.12
Control Delay                            2.2                       7.3                       19.9                18.1
Queue Delay                              0.0                       0.0                        0.0                 0.0
Total Delay                              2.2                       7.3                       19.9                18.1
LOS                                        A                         A                          B                   B
Approach Delay                           2.2                       7.3                       19.9                18.1
Approach LOS                               A                         A                          B                   B
Queue Length 50th (ft)                     9                        46                         16                  10
Queue Length 95th (ft)                    18                       117                         39                  28
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 379                        375                       303                 244
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                    1834                       2136                       481                 462
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0                          0                          0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn                     0                          0                          0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                       0                          0                          0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.36                       0.41                       0.16                0.12
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 46 (58%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.41
Intersection Signal Delay: 6.2                                Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 64.2%                       ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   4: JAMES ST & MCBRIDE ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                          Page 8
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
5: JAMES ST & CATHERINE ST                                                                                                  10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL     EBT      EBR      WBL        WBT     WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    14      502      43       126        718      22       47       79      57        2      127      36
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900     1900      1900      1900     1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900
Lane Util. Factor             0.95     0.95    0.95      0.95       0.95    0.95     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                        0.99                         0.99                      0.98                      0.99
Frt                                   0.988                        0.996                     0.958                     0.971
Flt Protected                         0.999                        0.993                     0.987                     0.999
Satd. Flow (prot)                0    3470         0           0   3494        0        0    1741        0        0    1791        0
Flt Permitted                         0.928                        0.768                     0.902                     0.997
Satd. Flow (perm)                0    3223         0           0   2692        0        0    1584        0        0    1787        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                         Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                       22                             6                        28                        17
Link Speed (mph)                        30                           30                         30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                     455                          884                        352                       335
Travel Time (s)                        10.3                         20.1                       8.0                       7.6
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)             24                28       28                 24       22               19       19                22
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                1                           2                         2                          2
Peak Hour Factor              0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94       0.94    0.94     0.94     0.94    0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94
Adj. Flow (vph)                 15      534       46      134        764      23       50       84      61        2      135       38
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      595        0        0        921        0       0      195        0       0      175        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No      No        No         No      No       No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left   Right      Left       Left   Right     Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          0                            0                         0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                         0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                        16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                      Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                          2                            2                         4                         4
Permitted Phases                 2                             2                        4                         4
Detector Phase                   2        2                    2       2                4        4                4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              55.0     55.0              55.0       55.0             25.0     25.0             25.0     25.0
Total Split (s)                55.0     55.0     0.0      55.0       55.0     0.0     25.0     25.0     0.0     25.0     25.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              68.8%    68.8%    0.0%     68.8%      68.8%    0.0%    31.3%    31.3%    0.0%    31.3%    31.3%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              50.0     50.0              50.0       50.0             20.0     20.0             20.0     20.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0        1.0              1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                  3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                C-Max C-Max                  Max      Max              Max      Max
Walk Time (s)                   7.0   7.0                  7.0   7.0                  7.0      7.0              7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            10.0  10.0                 10.0  10.0                 12.0     12.0             12.0     12.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5     5                    5     5                    5        5                5        5

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                Page 9
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
5: JAMES ST & CATHERINE ST                                                                                          10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR         NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Act Effct Green (s)                     52.0                      52.0                       22.0                22.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.65                      0.65                       0.28                0.28
v/c Ratio                               0.28                      0.53                       0.43                0.35
Control Delay                            1.4                       7.5                       23.7                23.3
Queue Delay                              0.0                       0.0                        0.0                 0.0
Total Delay                              1.4                       7.5                       23.7                23.3
LOS                                        A                         A                          C                   C
Approach Delay                           1.4                       7.5                       23.7                23.3
Approach LOS                               A                         A                          C                   C
Queue Length 50th (ft)                     5                        27                         46                  43
Queue Length 95th (ft)                     8                       102                         87                  79
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 375                        804                       272                 255
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                    2103                       1752                       456                 504
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0                          0                          0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn                     0                          0                          0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                       0                          0                          0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.28                       0.53                       0.43                0.35
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 54 (68%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.53
Intersection Signal Delay: 8.7                                Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 85.1%                       ICU Level of Service E
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   5: JAMES ST & CATHERINE ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                         Page 10
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                                                                       10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL     EBT      EBR      WBL        WBT     WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    30      478      53        23        814      64       34      268      53       38      252      18
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900     1900      1900      1900     1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900
Lane Util. Factor             0.95     0.95    0.95      0.95       0.95    0.95     0.95     0.95    0.95     0.95     0.95    0.95
Ped Bike Factor                        1.00                         1.00                      0.99                      1.00
Frt                                   0.986                        0.989                     0.978                     0.991
Flt Protected                         0.997                        0.999                     0.995                     0.994
Satd. Flow (prot)                0    3471         0           0   3491        0        0    3423        0        0    3479        0
Flt Permitted                         0.880                        0.933                     0.895                     0.860
Satd. Flow (perm)                0    3063         0           0   3260        0        0    3075        0        0    3004        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                         Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                       15                            11                        23                         7
Link Speed (mph)                        30                            30                        30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                     884                          1883                      1359                       423
Travel Time (s)                        20.1                         42.8                      30.9                       9.6
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)             13                12       12                 13       17               22       22               17
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                6                           1                         1
Peak Hour Factor              0.96     0.96     0.96     0.96       0.96    0.96     0.96     0.96    0.96     0.96     0.96     0.96
Adj. Flow (vph)                 31      498       55       24        848      67       35      279      55       40      262       19
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      584        0        0        939        0       0      369        0       0      321        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No      No        No         No      No       No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left   Right      Left       Left   Right     Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          0                            0                         0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                         0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                        16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                      Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                          1                            1                         2                         2
Permitted Phases                 1                             1                        2                         2
Detector Phase                   1        1                    1       1                2        2                2        2
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              31.0     31.0              31.0       31.0             21.0     21.0             21.0     21.0
Total Split (s)                31.0     31.0     0.0      31.0       31.0     0.0     21.0     21.0     0.0     21.0     21.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              38.8%    38.8%    0.0%     38.8%      38.8%    0.0%    26.3%    26.3%    0.0%    26.3%    26.3%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              26.0     26.0              26.0       26.0             16.0     16.0             16.0     16.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0        1.0              1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                      Lead     Lead              Lead       Lead               Lag      Lag              Lag      Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0      3.0               3.0        3.0              3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Min    C-Min             C-Min      C-Min             Max      Max              Max      Max
Walk Time (s)
Flash Dont Walk (s)
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                               Page 11
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                  10/7/2011



Lane Group                      ø3
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
Lane Util. Factor
Ped Bike Factor
Frt
Flt Protected
Satd. Flow (prot)
Flt Permitted
Satd. Flow (perm)
Right Turn on Red
Satd. Flow (RTOR)
Link Speed (mph)
Link Distance (ft)
Travel Time (s)
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)
Peak Hour Factor
Adj. Flow (vph)
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
Enter Blocked Intersection
Lane Alignment
Median Width(ft)
Link Offset(ft)
Crosswalk Width(ft)
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor
Turn Type
Protected Phases                 3
Permitted Phases
Detector Phase
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)            4.0
Minimum Split (s)             28.0
Total Split (s)               28.0
Total Split (%)               35%
Maximum Green (s)             25.0
Yellow Time (s)                3.0
All-Red Time (s)               0.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)
Total Lost Time (s)
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0
Recall Mode                   None
Walk Time (s)                   7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            15.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                            Page 12
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                                                               10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR          NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Act Effct Green (s)                     51.0                      51.0                       18.0                18.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.64                      0.64                       0.22                0.22
v/c Ratio                               0.30                      0.45                       0.52                0.47
Control Delay                           11.0                      10.4                       28.5                29.0
Queue Delay                              0.0                       0.0                        0.0                 0.0
Total Delay                             11.0                      10.4                       28.5                29.0
LOS                                        B                         B                          C                   C
Approach Delay                          11.0                      10.4                       28.5                29.0
Approach LOS                               B                         B                          C                   C
Queue Length 50th (ft)                    45                        57                         54                  48
Queue Length 95th (ft)                    62                       187                         83                  75
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 804                       1803                       1279                343
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                    1958                       2082                       710                 681
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0                          0                          0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn                     0                          0                          0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                       0                          0                          0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.30                       0.45                       0.52                0.47
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 47 (59%), Referenced to phase 1:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.52
Intersection Signal Delay: 16.2                               Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 78.0%                       ICU Level of Service D
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   6: JAMES ST & LODI ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                         Page 13
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                  10/7/2011



Lane Group                      ø3
Act Effct Green (s)
Actuated g/C Ratio
v/c Ratio
Control Delay
Queue Delay
Total Delay
LOS
Approach Delay
Approach LOS
Queue Length 50th (ft)
Queue Length 95th (ft)
Internal Link Dist (ft)
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
Starvation Cap Reductn
Spillback Cap Reductn
Storage Cap Reductn
Reduced v/c Ratio
Intersection Summary




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                            Page 14
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
7: JAMES ST & OAK ST                                                                                                        10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL     EBT      EBR      WBL        WBT     WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    78      424      67        47        750      31      110      173      98       28       88      41
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900     1900      1900      1900     1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900
Lane Util. Factor             0.95     0.95    0.95      0.95       0.95    0.95     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                        0.99                         1.00                      0.99                      0.99
Frt                                   0.982                        0.994                     0.965                     0.965
Flt Protected                         0.993                        0.997                     0.986                     0.991
Satd. Flow (prot)                0    3418         0           0   3500        0        0    1761        0        0    1765        0
Flt Permitted                         0.763                        0.894                     0.862                     0.899
Satd. Flow (perm)                0    2623         0           0   3134        0        0    1532        0        0    1599        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                         Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                        37                           10                       29                        30
Link Speed (mph)                         30                           30                       30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                     1883                         1028                      495                       602
Travel Time (s)                        42.8                         23.4                      11.3                      13.7
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)             19                31       31                 19       24               14       14                24
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                2                           1                         1                          1
Peak Hour Factor              0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94       0.94    0.94     0.94     0.94    0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94
Adj. Flow (vph)                 83      451       71       50        798      33      117      184     104       30       94       44
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      605        0        0        881        0       0      405        0       0      168        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No      No        No         No      No       No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left   Right      Left       Left   Right     Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          0                            0                         0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                         0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                        16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                      Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                          2                            2                         4                         4
Permitted Phases                 2                             2                        4                         4
Detector Phase                   2        2                    2       2                4        4                4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              40.0     40.0              40.0       40.0             25.0     25.0             25.0     25.0
Total Split (s)                40.0     40.0     0.0      40.0       40.0     0.0     25.0     25.0     0.0     25.0     25.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              61.5%    61.5%    0.0%     61.5%      61.5%    0.0%    38.5%    38.5%    0.0%    38.5%    38.5%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              35.0     35.0              35.0       35.0             20.0     20.0             20.0     20.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0        1.0              1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                  3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                C-Max C-Max                 None     None             None     None
Walk Time (s)                   7.0   7.0                  7.0   7.0                  7.0      7.0              7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)             9.0   9.0                  9.0   9.0                 13.0     13.0             13.0     13.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5     5                    5     5                    5        5                5        5

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                               Page 15
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
7: JAMES ST & OAK ST                                                                                              10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT      WBR         NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Act Effct Green (s)                    38.6                     38.6                       20.4                20.4
Actuated g/C Ratio                     0.59                     0.59                       0.31                0.31
v/c Ratio                              0.38                     0.47                       0.81                0.32
Control Delay                            7.7                     4.5                       33.2                15.1
Queue Delay                              0.0                     0.0                        0.0                 0.0
Total Delay                              7.7                     4.5                       33.2                15.1
LOS                                        A                       A                          C                   B
Approach Delay                           7.7                     4.5                       33.2                15.1
Approach LOS                               A                       A                          C                   B
Queue Length 50th (ft)                   39                       37                         88                  26
Queue Length 95th (ft)                   61                       10                       #178                  55
Internal Link Dist (ft)                1803                      948                        415                522
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                    1573                     1865                       538                 561
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0                        0                          0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn                     0                        0                          0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                       0                        0                          0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.38                     0.47                       0.75                0.30
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 65
Actuated Cycle Length: 65
Offset: 2 (3%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 65
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.81
Intersection Signal Delay: 11.9                             Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 84.5%                     ICU Level of Service E
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

Splits and Phases:   7: JAMES ST & OAK ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                              Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                       Page 16
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
8: JAMES ST & DEWITT ST                                                                                                     10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL     EBT      EBR      WBL        WBT     WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    30      509      11         0        768     120        7        1       2      179        6      53
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900     1900      1900      1900     1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900
Lane Util. Factor             0.95     0.95    0.95      0.95       0.95    0.95     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                        1.00                         0.99                      0.99                      0.97
Frt                                   0.997                        0.980                     0.975                     0.970
Flt Protected                         0.997                                                  0.965                     0.964
Satd. Flow (prot)                0    3514         0           0    3438       0        0    1738        0        0    1734        0
Flt Permitted                         0.879                                                  0.822                     0.773
Satd. Flow (perm)                0    3097         0           0    3438       0        0    1475        0        0    1353        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                         Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                         5                           44                         2                       24
Link Speed (mph)                         30                           30                        30                       30
Link Distance (ft)                     1028                          271                       427                      658
Travel Time (s)                        23.4                          6.2                       9.7                      15.0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)             22                16       16                 22        8               37       37                8
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                1                           2
Peak Hour Factor              0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90       0.90    0.90     0.90     0.90    0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90
Adj. Flow (vph)                 33      566       12        0        853     133        8        1       2      199        7       59
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      611        0        0        986        0       0       11        0       0      265        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No      No        No         No      No       No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left   Right      Left       Left   Right     Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          0                            0                         0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                         0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                        16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                      Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                          2                            2                         4                         4
Permitted Phases                 2                             2                        4                         4
Detector Phase                   2        2                    2       2                4        4                4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              40.0     40.0              40.0       40.0             25.0     25.0             25.0     25.0
Total Split (s)                40.0     40.0     0.0      40.0       40.0     0.0     25.0     25.0     0.0     25.0     25.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              61.5%    61.5%    0.0%     61.5%      61.5%    0.0%    38.5%    38.5%    0.0%    38.5%    38.5%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              35.0     35.0              35.0       35.0             20.0     20.0             20.0     20.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0        1.0              1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                  3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                C-Max C-Max                 None     None             None     None
Walk Time (s)                   7.0   7.0                  7.0   7.0                  7.0      7.0              7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)             9.0   9.0                  9.0   9.0                 13.0     13.0             13.0     13.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5     5                    5     5                    5        5                5        5

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                               Page 17
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
8: JAMES ST & DEWITT ST                                                                                             10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR         NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Act Effct Green (s)                     41.0                      41.0                       18.0                18.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.63                      0.63                       0.28                0.28
v/c Ratio                               0.31                      0.45                       0.03                0.68
Control Delay                           11.1                       4.8                       13.8                27.4
Queue Delay                              0.0                       0.1                        0.0                 0.0
Total Delay                             11.1                       4.9                       13.8                27.4
LOS                                        B                         A                          B                   C
Approach Delay                          11.1                       4.9                       13.8                27.4
Approach LOS                               B                         A                          B                   C
Queue Length 50th (ft)                    57                        16                          2                  56
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  m90                         22                          8                  99
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 948                        191                       347                 578
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                    1955                       2185                       501                 474
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0                        229                          0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn                     0                          0                          0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                       0                          0                          0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.31                       0.50                       0.02                0.56
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 65
Actuated Cycle Length: 65
Offset: 50 (77%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 65
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.68
Intersection Signal Delay: 10.1                               Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 59.7%                       ICU Level of Service B
Analysis Period (min) 15
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   8: JAMES ST & DEWITT ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                         Page 18
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
9: JAMES ST & SEDGEWICK ST                                                                  10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT        NBL     NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                   574      116       42      769        119      34
Ideal Flow (vphpl)           1900      1900     1900     1900      1900     1900
Lane Util. Factor             0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95       1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor               0.99                        1.00      0.99
Frt                          0.975                                 0.970
Flt Protected                                           0.997      0.962
Satd. Flow (prot)             3413        0        0    3529       1733        0
Flt Permitted                                           0.888      0.962
Satd. Flow (perm)             3413        0        0    3141       1727        0
Right Turn on Red                       Yes                                  Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)               65                                    23
Link Speed (mph)                30                         30         30
Link Distance (ft)             271                       1437        521
Travel Time (s)                6.2                       32.7       11.8
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                      22       22                   4       2
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                       2                                    1
Peak Hour Factor               0.91    0.91     0.91     0.91       0.91    0.91
Adj. Flow (vph)                631     127        46      845        131      37
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)          758       0         0      891        168       0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No      No        No       No         No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left   Right      Left     Left       Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                 0                          0         12
Link Offset(ft)                  0                          0          0
Crosswalk Width(ft)             16                         16         16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00
Turn Type                                      Perm
Protected Phases                 2                             2       4
Permitted Phases                                   2
Detector Phase                   2                 2           2       4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0               4.0      4.0        4.0
Minimum Split (s)              42.0              42.0     42.0       23.0
Total Split (s)                42.0      0.0     42.0     42.0       23.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              64.6%     0.0%    64.6%    64.6%      35.4%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              37.0              37.0     37.0       18.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0               4.0      4.0        4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0               1.0      1.0        1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0       -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0               3.0   3.0          3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max             C-Max C-Max          Max
Walk Time (s)                   7.0               7.0   7.0          7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)             9.0               9.0   9.0         11.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5                 5     5            5

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                        Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                 Page 19
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
9: JAMES ST & SEDGEWICK ST                                                                     10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT      NBL      NBR
Act Effct Green (s)            39.0                      39.0     20.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.60                      0.60     0.31
v/c Ratio                      0.37                      0.47     0.31
Control Delay                   3.5                      10.9     16.6
Queue Delay                     0.0                       0.0      0.0
Total Delay                     3.5                      11.0     16.6
LOS                               A                         B        B
Approach Delay                  3.5                      11.0     16.6
Approach LOS                      A                         B        B
Queue Length 50th (ft)           15                        61       29
Queue Length 95th (ft)           17                       171       59
Internal Link Dist (ft)        191                       1357      441
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)           2074                       1885      549
Starvation Cap Reductn           0                          0        0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0                         54        0
Storage Cap Reductn              0                          0        0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.37                       0.49     0.31
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 65
Actuated Cycle Length: 65
Offset: 42 (65%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 65
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.47
Intersection Signal Delay: 8.4                                Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 67.4%                       ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   9: JAMES ST & SEDGEWICK ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                           Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                    Page 20
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
10: JAMES ST & WILSON ST                                                                    10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT        NBL     NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                   596       12       16      789         22      29
Ideal Flow (vphpl)           1900      1900     1900     1900      1900     1900
Lane Util. Factor             0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95       1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor               1.00                        1.00      0.98
Frt                          0.997                                 0.923
Flt Protected                                           0.999      0.979
Satd. Flow (prot)             3526        0        0    3536       1651        0
Flt Permitted                                           0.938      0.979
Satd. Flow (perm)             3526        0        0    3320       1651        0
Right Turn on Red                       Yes                                  Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                5                                    35
Link Speed (mph)                30                         30         30
Link Distance (ft)            1437                       1093        701
Travel Time (s)               32.7                       24.8       15.9
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                       7        7                          22
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                       1                                    1
Peak Hour Factor               0.84    0.84     0.84     0.84       0.84    0.84
Adj. Flow (vph)                710       14       19      939         26      35
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)          724       0         0      958         61       0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No      No        No       No         No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left   Right      Left     Left       Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                12                         12         12
Link Offset(ft)                  0                          0          0
Crosswalk Width(ft)             16                         16         16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00
Turn Type                                      Perm
Protected Phases                 2                             2       4
Permitted Phases                                   2
Detector Phase                   2                 2           2       4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0               4.0      4.0        4.0
Minimum Split (s)              40.0              40.0     40.0       25.0
Total Split (s)                40.0      0.0     40.0     40.0       25.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              61.5%     0.0%    61.5%    61.5%      38.5%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              35.0              35.0     35.0       20.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0               4.0      4.0        4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0               1.0      1.0        1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0       -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0               3.0   3.0          3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max             C-Max C-Max         None
Walk Time (s)                   7.0               7.0   7.0          7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            10.0              10.0  10.0         13.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5                 5     5            5

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                        Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                 Page 21
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
10: JAMES ST & WILSON ST                                                                       10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      NBL      NBR
Act Effct Green (s)           53.4                       53.4     11.0
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.82                       0.82     0.17
v/c Ratio                     0.25                       0.35     0.20
Control Delay                   6.0                       4.0     12.6
Queue Delay                     0.0                       0.0      0.0
Total Delay                     6.0                       4.0     12.6
LOS                               A                         A        B
Approach Delay                  6.0                       4.0     12.6
Approach LOS                      A                         A        B
Queue Length 50th (ft)          28                         28        6
Queue Length 95th (ft)          80                         93       18
Internal Link Dist (ft)       1357                       1013      621
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)           2896                       2725      582
Starvation Cap Reductn           0                          0        0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0                          0        0
Storage Cap Reductn              0                          0        0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.25                       0.35     0.10
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 65
Actuated Cycle Length: 65
Offset: 54 (83%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 65
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.35
Intersection Signal Delay: 5.1                                Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 50.6%                       ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   10: JAMES ST & WILSON ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                           Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                    Page 22
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
11: JAMES ST & TEALL AVE                                                                                                     10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL     EBT      EBR      WBL        WBT      WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                   102      432      91         82       442       12      170      354      92        7      446     193
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900     1900    1900      1900       1900     1900     1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)            160                0        125                  0        0                0        0                0
Storage Lanes                    1                0          1                  0        0                0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)               25               25         25                 25       25               25       25               25
Lane Util. Factor             1.00     0.95    0.95      1.00       0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95    0.95     0.95     0.95    0.95
Ped Bike Factor               0.99     0.99               0.98      1.00                       1.00                      0.98
Frt                                   0.974                        0.996                      0.978                     0.955
Flt Protected                0.950                      0.950                                 0.986                     0.999
Satd. Flow (prot)            1770      3416        0    1770        3522        0        0    3398        0        0    3294        0
Flt Permitted                0.950                      0.950                                 0.583                     0.948
Satd. Flow (perm)            1748      3416        0    1738        3522        0        0    2009        0        0    3125        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                          Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                        19                            2                         18                        46
Link Speed (mph)                         30                           30                         30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                     1093                         2248                        180                       188
Travel Time (s)                        24.8                         51.1                        4.1                       4.3
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)             10                16       16                  10       29                7        7               29
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                1                            1
Peak Hour Factor              0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90        0.90    0.90     0.90     0.90    0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90
Adj. Flow (vph)               113      480      101        91         491      13      189      393     102        8      496      214
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)          113      581       0        91        504         0       0      684        0       0      718        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No      No        No         No       No       No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left   Right      Left       Left    Right     Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                         12                           12                          0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                          0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                         16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00        1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Prot                       Prot                        pm+pt                     Perm
Protected Phases                 1        6                 5           2                7        4                         8
Permitted Phases                                                                         4                         8
Detector Phase                   1        6                    5        2                7        4                8        8
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             5.0      5.0               5.0         5.0              5.0      5.0              5.0      5.0
Minimum Split (s)               9.5     22.0               9.5       22.0              10.0     22.0             22.0     22.0
Total Split (s)                25.0     50.0     0.0      25.0       50.0      0.0     25.0     65.0     0.0     40.0     40.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              17.9%    35.7%    0.0%     17.9%      35.7%     0.0%    17.9%    46.4%    0.0%    28.6%    28.6%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              20.5     45.0              20.5       45.0              20.0     60.0             35.0     35.0
Yellow Time (s)                 3.5      4.0               3.5         4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0         1.0              1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             2.5      3.0      3.0      2.5        3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                      Lead       Lag             Lead         Lag             Lead                        Lag      Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0      3.0               3.0        3.0               3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                   None      Min             None         Min             None     None             None     None

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                Page 23
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
11: JAMES ST & TEALL AVE                                                                                               10/7/2011



Lane Group                       EBL       EBT    EBR   WBL         WBT     WBR          NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL     SBT     SBR
Walk Time (s)                               7.0                      7.0                        7.0          7.0     7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)                       10.0                      10.0                       10.0         10.0    10.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)                       5                        5                          5            5       5
Act Effct Green (s)              14.2     27.4           13.0       22.8                       40.9                 40.9
Actuated g/C Ratio               0.16     0.31           0.15       0.26                       0.47                 0.47
v/c Ratio                        0.39     0.53           0.34       0.54                       0.72                 0.48
Control Delay                    42.3     29.7           43.1       32.2                       23.3                 16.1
Queue Delay                       0.0       0.0           0.0        0.0                        0.0                  0.0
Total Delay                      42.3     29.7           43.1       32.2                       23.3                 16.1
LOS                                 D        C              D          C                          C                    B
Approach Delay                            31.7                      33.9                       23.3                 16.1
Approach LOS                                 C                         C                          C                    B
Queue Length 50th (ft)            37        92             30         82                         98                   84
Queue Length 95th (ft)            94       180             80        161                       180                   147
Internal Link Dist (ft)                   1013                      2168                       100                   108
Turn Bay Length (ft)             160                     125
Base Capacity (vph)              491      1986           491        2041                       1499                1672
Starvation Cap Reductn              0        0              0          0                          0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn               0        0              0          0                          0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                 0        0              0          0                          0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                0.23     0.29           0.19       0.25                       0.46                0.43
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 140
Actuated Cycle Length: 87
Natural Cycle: 65
Control Type: Actuated-Uncoordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.72
Intersection Signal Delay: 25.9                                 Intersection LOS: C
Intersection Capacity Utilization 70.3%                         ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:    11: JAMES ST & TEALL AVE




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                            Page 24
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                                                                        10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL     EBT      EBR      WBL        WBT     WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     0      501       30       10        422       0       44        0      73      238       43      70
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900     1900    1900      1900       1900    1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900
Lane Util. Factor             1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                                 0.97                 1.00                     0.99                      0.99
Frt                                            0.850                                         0.916                     0.973
Flt Protected                                                      0.999                     0.982                     0.967
Satd. Flow (prot)                0     1863     1583           0   1861        0        0    1651        0        0    1739        0
Flt Permitted                                                      0.985                     0.847                     0.672
Satd. Flow (perm)                0     1863     1533           0   1835        0        0    1424        0        0    1207        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                         Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                                 37                                            73                        11
Link Speed (mph)                         30                           30                        30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                     2248                          208                       239                       142
Travel Time (s)                        51.1                          4.7                       5.4                       3.2
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)             28                13       13                 28       14                1        1                14
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                4                                                                                1
Peak Hour Factor              0.81     0.81     0.81     0.81       0.81    0.81     0.81     0.81    0.81     0.81     0.81     0.81
Adj. Flow (vph)                  0      619       37       12        521       0       54        0      90      294       53       86
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      619       37        0        533        0       0      144        0       0      433        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No      No        No         No      No       No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left   Right      Left       Left   Right     Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                         12                           12                         0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                         0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                        16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turning Speed (mph)             15                 9       15                  9       15                9       15                 9
Turn Type                                      Perm     Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                       124                          124                          3                         3
Permitted Phases                                124      124                            3                         3
Detector Phase                         124      124      124        124                 3        3                3        3
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)                                                                    8.0      8.0              8.0      8.0
Minimum Split (s)                                                                     22.0     22.0             22.0     22.0
Total Split (s)                 0.0     78.0     78.0     78.0       78.0     0.0     30.0     30.0     0.0     30.0     30.0     0.0
Total Split (%)               0.0%    72.2%    72.2%    72.2%      72.2%    0.0%    27.8%    27.8%    0.0%    27.8%    27.8%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)                                                                     25.5     25.5             25.5     25.5
Yellow Time (s)                                                                        3.5      3.5              3.5      3.5
All-Red Time (s)                                                                       1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)            0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Total Lost Time (s)             4.0     4.5      4.5      4.5        4.5      4.0      4.5      4.5     4.0      4.5      4.5     4.0
Lead/Lag                                                                             Lead     Lead             Lead     Lead
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)                                                                 3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                                                                         None     None             None     None
Walk Time (s)                                                                         7.0      7.0              7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)                                                                  10.0     10.0             10.0     10.0

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                               Page 25
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                   10/7/2011



Lane Group                      ø1       ø2       ø4
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
Lane Util. Factor
Ped Bike Factor
Frt
Flt Protected
Satd. Flow (prot)
Flt Permitted
Satd. Flow (perm)
Right Turn on Red
Satd. Flow (RTOR)
Link Speed (mph)
Link Distance (ft)
Travel Time (s)
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)
Peak Hour Factor
Adj. Flow (vph)
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
Enter Blocked Intersection
Lane Alignment
Median Width(ft)
Link Offset(ft)
Crosswalk Width(ft)
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor
Turning Speed (mph)
Turn Type
Protected Phases                 1        2        4
Permitted Phases
Detector Phase
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)            5.0     10.0      5.0
Minimum Split (s)              9.5     22.0      9.5
Total Split (s)               13.0     40.0     25.0
Total Split (%)               12%      37%      23%
Maximum Green (s)              8.5     35.5     20.5
Yellow Time (s)                3.5      3.5      3.5
All-Red Time (s)               1.0      1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)
Total Lost Time (s)
Lead/Lag                      Lead      Lag      Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0      3.0     3.0
Recall Mode                   None      Min    None
Walk Time (s)                           7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)                    10.0

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                            Page 26
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                                                              10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT      WBR         NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL     SBT    SBR
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)                                                                5      5           5       5
Act Effct Green (s)                    73.2     73.2             73.2                      25.5                25.5
Actuated g/C Ratio                     0.68     0.68             0.68                      0.24                0.24
v/c Ratio                              0.49     0.04             0.43                      0.37                1.47
Control Delay                           9.9      1.9              5.1                      20.5               262.1
Queue Delay                             0.9      0.0              1.4                       0.1               401.5
Total Delay                            10.8      1.9              6.5                      20.6               663.6
LOS                                       B        A                A                         C                   F
Approach Delay                         10.3                       6.5                      20.6               663.6
Approach LOS                              B                         A                         C                   F
Queue Length 50th (ft)                  125        0               12                        27               ~280
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  149        6               40                        55                #358
Internal Link Dist (ft)                2168                      128                       159                   62
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                    1256    1045             1237                       393                 294
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0       0              481                          0                111
Spillback Cap Reductn                   359       0                 0                        14                   2
Storage Cap Reductn                       0       0                 0                         0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.69    0.04              0.71                      0.38                2.37
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 108
Actuated Cycle Length: 107.7
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Uncoordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 1.47
Intersection Signal Delay: 170.2                            Intersection LOS: F
Intersection Capacity Utilization 64.4%                     ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15
~ Volume exceeds capacity, queue is theoretically infinite.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

Splits and Phases:   12: JAMES ST & Grant




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                              Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                       Page 27
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                   10/7/2011



Lane Group                      ø1       ø2       ø4
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)                   5
Act Effct Green (s)
Actuated g/C Ratio
v/c Ratio
Control Delay
Queue Delay
Total Delay
LOS
Approach Delay
Approach LOS
Queue Length 50th (ft)
Queue Length 95th (ft)
Internal Link Dist (ft)
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
Starvation Cap Reductn
Spillback Cap Reductn
Storage Cap Reductn
Reduced v/c Ratio
Intersection Summary




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                            Page 28
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
13: James S & Walgreens                                                                                                   10/7/2011



Lane Group                    EBL2     EBL      EBT      WBT        WBR       SBL     SBR     SEL     SER       ø3
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    60      102      650      422        258        6       10       0       0
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900     1900     1900     1900      1900     1900      1900    1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)                      75                          150        0        0       0       0
Storage Lanes                             1                            1        1        0       0       0
Taper Length (ft)                        25                           25       25       25      25      25
Lane Util. Factor              1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                                                     0.89     0.97
Frt                                                                0.850    0.915
Flt Protected                         0.950                                 0.982
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0   1770      1863     1863       1583    1674         0       0       0
Flt Permitted                         0.292                                 0.982
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0     544     1863     1863       1414    1628         0       0       0
Right Turn on Red                                                                                      Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)
Link Speed (mph)                                  30      30                    30              30
Link Distance (ft)                               208     618                   139             186
Travel Time (s)                                  4.7     14.0                  3.2             4.2
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              28                                   28        28
Peak Hour Factor               0.81    0.81     0.81     0.81       0.81      0.81    0.81    0.81    0.81
Adj. Flow (vph)                  74     126      802      521        319         7      12       0       0
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      200      802      521       319        19        0       0       0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No       No       No        No        No       No      No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left     Left     Left     Right      Left    Right    Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                                  12       12                  12                0
Link Offset(ft)                                    0        0                   0                0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                               16       16                  16               16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00   1.00      1.00     1.00       1.00      1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Turning Speed (mph)               15     15                            9        15       9      15       9
Turn Type                    custom custom                         Perm
Protected Phases                          1     123            2                 4                               3
Permitted Phases                 23     23                             2
Detector Phase                   23       1     123            2       2         4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)                      5.0              10.0       10.0       5.0                            8.0
Minimum Split (s)                        9.5              22.0       22.0       9.5                           22.0
Total Split (s)                70.0     13.0     83.0     40.0       40.0     25.0      0.0     0.0     0.0   30.0
Total Split (%)              64.8%    12.0%    76.9%    37.0%      37.0%    23.1%     0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    28%
Maximum Green (s)                        8.5              35.5       35.5     20.5                            25.5
Yellow Time (s)                          3.5               3.5        3.5      3.5                             3.5
All-Red Time (s)                         1.0               1.0        1.0      1.0                             1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)            0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
Total Lost Time (s)             4.5      4.5     4.5       4.5        4.5      4.5      4.0    4.0      4.0
Lead/Lag                               Lead                Lag        Lag      Lag                            Lead
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)                   3.0               3.0        3.0      3.0                               3.0
Recall Mode                           None                Min        Min     None                             None

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                               Page 29
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
13: James S & Walgreens                                                                                            10/7/2011



Lane Group                   EBL2      EBL      EBT     WBT      WBR       SBL        SBR   SEL   SER    ø3
Walk Time (s)                                             7.0     7.0                                    7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)                                     10.0     10.0                                   10.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)                                     5       5                                      5
Act Effct Green (s)                    74.0     78.5    35.5     35.5     20.2
Actuated g/C Ratio                     0.69     0.73    0.33     0.33     0.19
v/c Ratio                              0.43     0.59    0.85     0.68     0.06
Control Delay                           7.7     11.0    48.3     40.2     36.6
Queue Delay                             0.3      1.6     0.0      0.0      0.0
Total Delay                             8.0     12.7    48.3     40.2     36.6
LOS                                       A        B       D        D        D
Approach Delay                                  11.7    45.2              36.6
Approach LOS                                       B       D                 D
Queue Length 50th (ft)                  38       199     227      129        7
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 m37     m185      277      173       19
Internal Link Dist (ft)                          128     538                59              106
Turn Bay Length (ft)                     75                        150
Base Capacity (vph)                    470     1358       614      466     319
Starvation Cap Reductn                   44     362         0        0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn                     0       0         0        0       0
Storage Cap Reductn                       0       0         0        0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.47    0.81      0.85     0.68    0.06
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 108
Actuated Cycle Length: 107.7
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Uncoordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 1.47
Intersection Signal Delay: 27.1                              Intersection LOS: C
Intersection Capacity Utilization 46.6%                      ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   13: James S & Walgreens




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                               Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                        Page 30
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
1: JAMES ST & OSWEGO BLVD                                                                                                   10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL     EBT      EBR      WBL        WBT     WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     0      543     121        34        596       1      329        0      20        5        7      11
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900     1900      1900       1900    1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900
Lane Util. Factor             0.95     0.95    0.95      0.95       0.95    0.95     0.95     0.95    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                        0.99                          1.00                     1.00                      0.99
Frt                                   0.973                                                  0.983                     0.932
Flt Protected                                                      0.997            0.950    0.958                     0.990
Satd. Flow (prot)                0     3409        0           0   3528        0    1681     1661        0        0    1702        0
Flt Permitted                                                      0.890            0.213    0.260                     0.875
Satd. Flow (perm)                0     3409        0           0   3148        0      377      451       0        0    1500        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                         Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                        34                                                      9                        12
Link Speed (mph)                         30                          30                         30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      170                         537                        242                       134
Travel Time (s)                         3.9                         12.2                       5.5                       3.0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              7                35       35                  7        4               13       13                 4
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                5                           6                                                    1
Peak Hour Factor              0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95       0.95    0.95     0.95     0.95    0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95
Adj. Flow (vph)                  0      572      127       36        627       1      346        0      21        5        7       12
Shared Lane Traffic (%)                                                              47%
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      699        0        0        664        0     183      184        0       0       24        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No      No        No         No      No       No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left   Right      Left       Left   Right     Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                         12                           12                        12                        12
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                         0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                        16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turning Speed (mph)              15                9       15                  9       15                9       15                 9
Turn Type                     Perm                      Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                          1                            1                         2                         3
Permitted Phases                 1                             1                        2                         3
Detector Phase                   1        1                    1       1                2        2                3        3
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              32.0     32.0              32.0       32.0             35.0     35.0             18.0     18.0
Total Split (s)                32.0     32.0     0.0      32.0       32.0     0.0     35.0     35.0     0.0     18.0     18.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              37.6%    37.6%    0.0%     37.6%      37.6%    0.0%    41.2%    41.2%    0.0%    21.2%    21.2%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              27.0     27.0              27.0       27.0             30.0     30.0             13.0     13.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0        1.0              1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                      Lead     Lead              Lead       Lead               Lag      Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                  3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                C-Max C-Max                  Max      Max             None     None
Walk Time (s)                   7.0   7.0                  7.0   7.0                  7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            15.0  15.0                 15.0  15.0                 12.0     12.0

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                Page 1
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
1: JAMES ST & OSWEGO BLVD                                                                                              10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR       NBL        NBT     NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)          5         5               5         5                 5           5
Act Effct Green (s)                     42.0                      42.0              32.0       32.0                  8.4
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.49                      0.49              0.38       0.38                 0.10
v/c Ratio                               0.41                      0.43              1.29       1.05                 0.15
Control Delay                           15.0                      35.5             200.7      111.8                 25.6
Queue Delay                              0.0                       0.0               0.0         0.0                 0.0
Total Delay                             15.0                      35.5             200.7      111.8                 25.6
LOS                                        B                         D                 F           F                   C
Approach Delay                          15.0                      35.5                        156.1                 25.6
Approach LOS                               B                         D                             F                   C
Queue Length 50th (ft)                    65                       116              ~90         ~75                    4
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  128                        163             #181        #167                   19
Internal Link Dist (ft)                   90                       457                          162                   54
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                    1701                       1555                 142     175                  275
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0                          0                    0       0                    0
Spillback Cap Reductn                     0                          0                    0       0                    0
Storage Cap Reductn                       0                          0                    0       0                    0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.41                       0.43                 1.29    1.05                 0.09
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 32 (38%), Referenced to phase 1:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 85
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 1.29
Intersection Signal Delay: 52.4                               Intersection LOS: D
Intersection Capacity Utilization 64.2%                       ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15
~ Volume exceeds capacity, queue is theoretically infinite.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

Splits and Phases:   1: JAMES ST & OSWEGO BLVD




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                             Page 2
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
2: JAMES ST & STATE ST                                                                                                       10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL     EBT      EBR      WBL        WBT      WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    62      490      16        97        568      349        38     972     124      119      211      25
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900     1900    1900      1900       1900    1900      1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)            150                0         0                 150       120               0      120                0
Storage Lanes                    1                0         0                   1         1               0        1                0
Taper Length (ft)               25               25        25                  25        25              25       25               25
Lane Util. Factor             1.00     0.95    0.95      0.95       0.95     1.00     1.00     0.95    0.95     1.00     0.95    0.95
Ped Bike Factor               0.99     1.00                         1.00     0.98      0.99    0.99                      1.00
Frt                                   0.995                                 0.850             0.983                     0.984
Flt Protected                0.950                                 0.993             0.950                     0.950
Satd. Flow (prot)            1770      3512        0           0   3514      1583    1770      3458       0    1770      3471       0
Flt Permitted                0.374                                 0.661             0.592                     0.121
Satd. Flow (perm)              692     3512        0           0   2332      1546    1087      3458       0      225     3471       0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                          Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                         4                                   274                18                        22
Link Speed (mph)                        30                           30                          30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                     537                          777                         389                       292
Travel Time (s)                        12.2                         17.7                        8.8                       6.6
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)             13                46       46                  13       14               46       46               14
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                1                            4                         4
Peak Hour Factor              0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91       0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91    0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91
Adj. Flow (vph)                 68      538       18      107        624      384       42     1068     136      131      232       27
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)           68      556        0        0        731     384        42     1204        0     131      259        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No      No        No         No      No        No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left   Right      Left       Left   Right      Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                         12                           12                         12                        12
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                          0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                         16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                      pm+pt               Perm     Perm                      pm+pt
Protected Phases                          2                 1          6                          4                3        8
Permitted Phases                 2                          6                   6        4                         8
Detector Phase                   2        2                 1          6        6        4        4                3        8
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              24.0     24.0              14.0       38.0     38.0     33.0     33.0             14.0     47.0
Total Split (s)                24.0     24.0     0.0      14.0       38.0     38.0     33.0     33.0     0.0     14.0     47.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              28.2%    28.2%    0.0%     16.5%      44.7%    44.7%    38.8%    38.8%    0.0%    16.5%    55.3%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              19.0     19.0               9.0       33.0     33.0     28.0     28.0              9.0     42.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0        1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                       Lag      Lag              Lead                           Lag      Lag            Lead
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                 3.0   3.0   3.0              3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                 Max C-Max C-Max              Max      Max              Max      Max

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                 Page 3
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
2: JAMES ST & STATE ST                                                                                               10/7/2011



Lane Group                    EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR         NBL    NBT    NBR   SBL     SBT     SBR
Walk Time (s)                  7.0      7.0                                                                        7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)           10.0     10.0                                                                       10.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)          5        5                                                                          5
Act Effct Green (s)           21.0     21.0                      35.0     35.0        30.0   30.0         44.0    44.0
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.25     0.25                      0.41     0.41        0.35   0.35         0.52    0.52
v/c Ratio                     0.40     0.64                      0.66     0.48        0.11   0.98         0.41    0.14
Control Delay                 27.5     26.7                      27.9     14.0        19.6   48.8         14.9    10.0
Queue Delay                    0.0      0.0                       0.0      0.0         0.0    0.0          0.0     0.0
Total Delay                   27.5     26.7                      27.9     14.0        19.6   48.8         14.9    10.0
LOS                              C        C                         C        B           B      D            B       A
Approach Delay                         26.8                      23.1                        47.9                 11.6
Approach LOS                              C                         C                           D                    B
Queue Length 50th (ft)         23       106                      112       54          10     221          23       22
Queue Length 95th (ft)        m53     m146                      m136      m82          26    #322          44       35
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 457                      697                          309                  212
Turn Bay Length (ft)          150                                          150         120                120
Base Capacity (vph)           171      871                       1113      798         384   1232         316    1807
Starvation Cap Reductn           0        0                         0        0           0      0            0      0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0        0                         0        0           0      0            0      0
Storage Cap Reductn              0        0                         0        0           0      0            0      0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.40     0.64                      0.66     0.48        0.11   0.98         0.41   0.14
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 53 (62%), Referenced to phase 2:EBTL and 6:WBTL, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 85
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.98
Intersection Signal Delay: 31.6                              Intersection LOS: C
Intersection Capacity Utilization 83.9%                      ICU Level of Service E
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   2: JAMES ST & STATE ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                 Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                           Page 4
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
3: JAMES ST & TOWNSEND ST                                                                                                    10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL     EBT      EBR      WBL        WBT     WBR      NBL      NBT      NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    35      616      82        42        705      47      266      486      112        42     291      43
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900     1900    1900      1900       1900    1900     1900     1900    1900      1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)              0                0         0                  0       105                0       150               0
Storage Lanes                    0                0         0                  0         1                1         1               0
Taper Length (ft)               25               25        25                 25        25               25        25              25
Lane Util. Factor             0.95     0.95    0.95      0.95       0.95    0.95     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                        0.99                         1.00              0.99             0.98      1.00    1.00
Frt                                   0.983                        0.991                              0.850             0.981
Flt Protected                         0.998                        0.997            0.950                      0.950
Satd. Flow (prot)                0    3444         0           0   3483        0    1770      1863     1583    1770      1821       0
Flt Permitted                         0.885                        0.877            0.376                      0.202
Satd. Flow (perm)                0    3052         0           0   3061        0      695     1863     1551      375     1821       0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                         Yes                        Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                       26                           12                                 119                10
Link Speed (mph)                        30                           30                         30                         30
Link Distance (ft)                     777                          459                        200                        317
Travel Time (s)                        17.7                         10.4                       4.5                        7.2
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)             20                25       25                 20       16                 8        8               16
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                2                           8
Peak Hour Factor              0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94       0.94    0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94
Adj. Flow (vph)                 37      655       87       45        750      50      283      517      119       45      310       46
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      779        0        0        845        0     283      517     119        45      356        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No      No        No         No      No       No       No      No        No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left   Right      Left       Left   Right     Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          0                            0                        12                         12
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                         0                          0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                        16                         16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                      Perm                        Perm              Perm     Perm
Protected Phases                          2                            2                         4                          4
Permitted Phases                 2                             2                        4                 4        4
Detector Phase                   2        2                    2       2                4        4        4        4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              50.0     50.0              50.0       50.0             35.0     35.0     35.0     35.0     35.0
Total Split (s)                50.0     50.0     0.0      50.0       50.0     0.0     35.0     35.0     35.0     35.0     35.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              58.8%    58.8%    0.0%     58.8%      58.8%    0.0%    41.2%    41.2%    41.2%    41.2%    41.2%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              45.0     45.0              45.0       45.0             30.0     30.0     30.0     30.0     30.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0        1.0              1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                  3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                C-Max C-Max                  Max      Max      Max      Max      Max

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                 Page 5
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
3: JAMES ST & TOWNSEND ST                                                                                             10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR      NBL       NBT    NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Walk Time (s)                   7.0     7.0              7.0      7.0               7.0       7.0    7.0    7.0     7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            13.0    13.0             13.0     13.0              17.0      17.0   17.0   17.0    17.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5       5                5        5                 5         5      5      5       5
Act Effct Green (s)                    47.0                      47.0              32.0      32.0   32.0   32.0    32.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                     0.55                      0.55              0.38      0.38   0.38   0.38    0.38
v/c Ratio                              0.46                      0.50              1.08      0.74   0.18   0.32    0.51
Control Delay                           6.4                       6.5             108.0      30.5    4.3   26.6    23.1
Queue Delay                             0.0                       0.0               0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0
Total Delay                             6.4                       6.5             108.0      30.5    4.3   26.6    23.1
LOS                                       A                         A                 F         C      A      C       C
Approach Delay                          6.4                       6.5                        51.0                  23.5
Approach LOS                              A                         A                           D                     C
Queue Length 50th (ft)                   32                        34                 ~116   159      0     11       95
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 m40                         42                 #219   240     22     32      151
Internal Link Dist (ft)                697                        379                         120                   237
Turn Bay Length (ft)                                                                  105                   150
Base Capacity (vph)                    1699                      1698                 262    701    658    141     692
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0                         0                    0      0      0      0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn                     0                         0                    0      0      0      0       0
Storage Cap Reductn                       0                         0                    0      0      0      0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.46                      0.50                 1.08   0.74   0.18   0.32    0.51
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 4 (5%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 85
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 1.08
Intersection Signal Delay: 22.7                              Intersection LOS: C
Intersection Capacity Utilization 91.3%                      ICU Level of Service F
Analysis Period (min) 15
~ Volume exceeds capacity, queue is theoretically infinite.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   3: JAMES ST & TOWNSEND ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                  Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                            Page 6
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
4: JAMES ST & MCBRIDE ST                                                                                                    10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL     EBT      EBR      WBL        WBT     WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    55      695      20        13        720      43       19       65       7       70       78      55
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900     1900      1900      1900     1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900
Lane Util. Factor             0.95     0.95    0.95      0.95       0.95    0.95     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                        1.00                         0.99                      1.00                      0.99
Frt                                   0.996                        0.992                     0.989                     0.963
Flt Protected                         0.996                        0.999                     0.990                     0.983
Satd. Flow (prot)                0    3503         0           0   3486        0        0    1820        0        0    1751        0
Flt Permitted                         0.830                        0.937                     0.928                     0.879
Satd. Flow (perm)                0    2915         0           0   3269        0        0    1704        0        0    1560        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                         Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                         6                          14                          5                        22
Link Speed (mph)                        30                           30                         30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                     459                          455                        383                       324
Travel Time (s)                        10.4                         10.3                       8.7                       7.4
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)             36                26       26                 36       10               10       10               10
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                6                           5
Peak Hour Factor              0.89     0.89     0.89     0.89       0.89    0.89     0.89     0.89    0.89     0.89     0.89     0.89
Adj. Flow (vph)                 62      781       22       15        809      48       21       73       8       79       88       62
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      865        0        0        872        0       0      102        0       0      229        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No      No        No         No      No       No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left   Right      Left       Left   Right     Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          0                            0                         0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                         0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                        16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                      Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                          2                            2                         4                         4
Permitted Phases                 2                             2                        4                         4
Detector Phase                   2        2                    2       2                4        4                4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              59.0     59.0              59.0       59.0             26.0     26.0             26.0     26.0
Total Split (s)                59.0     59.0     0.0      59.0       59.0     0.0     26.0     26.0     0.0     26.0     26.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              69.4%    69.4%    0.0%     69.4%      69.4%    0.0%    30.6%    30.6%    0.0%    30.6%    30.6%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              54.0     54.0              54.0       54.0             21.0     21.0             21.0     21.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0        1.0              1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                  3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                C-Max C-Max                  Max      Max              Max      Max
Walk Time (s)                   7.0   7.0                  7.0   7.0                  7.0      7.0              7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            10.0  10.0                 10.0  10.0                 11.0     11.0             11.0     11.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5     5                    5     5                    5        5                5        5

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                Page 7
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
4: JAMES ST & MCBRIDE ST                                                                                           10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR         NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Act Effct Green (s)                    56.0                      56.0                       23.0                23.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                     0.66                      0.66                       0.27                0.27
v/c Ratio                              0.45                      0.40                       0.22                0.52
Control Delay                           3.0                       5.3                       24.4                28.8
Queue Delay                             0.0                       0.0                        0.0                 0.0
Total Delay                             3.0                       5.3                       24.4                28.8
LOS                                       A                         A                          C                   C
Approach Delay                          3.0                       5.3                       24.4                28.8
Approach LOS                              A                         A                          C                   C
Queue Length 50th (ft)                   22                        47                         27                  63
Queue Length 95th (ft)                   32                      m57                          54                110
Internal Link Dist (ft)                379                        375                       303                 244
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                    1923                      2158                       465                 438
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0                         0                          0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn                     0                         0                          0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                       0                         0                          0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.45                      0.40                       0.22                0.52
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 6 (7%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 85
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.52
Intersection Signal Delay: 7.9                               Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 71.6%                      ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   4: JAMES ST & MCBRIDE ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                               Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                         Page 8
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
5: JAMES ST & CATHERINE ST                                                                                                  10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL     EBT      EBR      WBL        WBT     WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    33      696      43        71        598      28      136      214      68        7      136      42
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900     1900      1900      1900     1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900
Lane Util. Factor             0.95     0.95    0.95      0.95       0.95    0.95     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                        1.00                         1.00                      0.98                      0.99
Frt                                   0.992                        0.994                     0.978                     0.969
Flt Protected                         0.998                        0.995                     0.984                     0.998
Satd. Flow (prot)                0    3490         0           0   3490        0        0    1775        0        0    1784        0
Flt Permitted                         0.904                        0.800                     0.727                     0.984
Satd. Flow (perm)                0    3159         0           0   2802        0        0    1303        0        0    1758        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                         Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                       15                           10                         11                        17
Link Speed (mph)                        30                           30                         30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                     455                          884                        352                       335
Travel Time (s)                        10.3                         20.1                       8.0                       7.6
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)             19                20       20                 19       23               38       38                23
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                6                           8                                                    2
Peak Hour Factor              0.97     0.97     0.97     0.97       0.97    0.97     0.97     0.97    0.97     0.97     0.97     0.97
Adj. Flow (vph)                 34      718       44       73        616      29      140      221      70        7      140       43
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      796        0        0        718        0       0      431        0       0      190        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No      No        No         No      No       No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left   Right      Left       Left   Right     Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          0                            0                         0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                         0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                        16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                      Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                          2                            2                         4                         4
Permitted Phases                 2                             2                        4                         4
Detector Phase                   2        2                    2       2                4        4                4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              59.0     59.0              59.0       59.0             26.0     26.0             26.0     26.0
Total Split (s)                59.0     59.0     0.0      59.0       59.0     0.0     26.0     26.0     0.0     26.0     26.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              69.4%    69.4%    0.0%     69.4%      69.4%    0.0%    30.6%    30.6%    0.0%    30.6%    30.6%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              54.0     54.0              54.0       54.0             21.0     21.0             21.0     21.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0        1.0              1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                  3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                C-Max C-Max                  Max      Max              Max      Max
Walk Time (s)                   7.0   7.0                  7.0   7.0                  7.0      7.0              7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            10.0  10.0                 10.0  10.0                 12.0     12.0             12.0     12.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5     5                    5     5                    5        5                5        5

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                Page 9
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
5: JAMES ST & CATHERINE ST                                                                                         10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT      WBR         NBL    NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Act Effct Green (s)                    56.0                     56.0                        23.0                23.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                     0.66                     0.66                        0.27                0.27
v/c Ratio                              0.38                     0.39                        1.19                0.39
Control Delay                           3.5                      7.3                       141.4                25.8
Queue Delay                             0.0                      0.0                         0.0                 0.0
Total Delay                             3.5                      7.3                       141.4                25.8
LOS                                       A                        A                           F                   C
Approach Delay                          3.5                      7.3                       141.4                25.8
Approach LOS                              A                        A                           F                   C
Queue Length 50th (ft)                   26                       54                       ~190                   51
Queue Length 95th (ft)                   30                       75                        #313                  91
Internal Link Dist (ft)                375                       804                         272                255
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                    2086                     1849                        361                 488
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0                        0                           0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn                     0                        0                           0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                       0                        0                           0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.38                     0.39                        1.19                0.39
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 6 (7%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 85
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 1.19
Intersection Signal Delay: 34.6                             Intersection LOS: C
Intersection Capacity Utilization 93.8%                     ICU Level of Service F
Analysis Period (min) 15
~ Volume exceeds capacity, queue is theoretically infinite.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

Splits and Phases:   5: JAMES ST & CATHERINE ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                               Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                        Page 10
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                                                                       10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL     EBT      EBR      WBL        WBT     WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    13      745      13        13        589      74       74      510     106       47      224      34
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900     1900      1900      1900     1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900
Lane Util. Factor             0.95     0.95    0.95      0.95       0.95    0.95     0.95     0.95    0.95     0.95     0.95    0.95
Ped Bike Factor                        1.00                         1.00                      0.99                      1.00
Frt                                   0.998                        0.984                     0.977                     0.983
Flt Protected                         0.999                        0.999                     0.995                     0.992
Satd. Flow (prot)                0    3527         0           0   3464        0        0    3419        0        0    3439        0
Flt Permitted                         0.939                        0.934                     0.864                     0.697
Satd. Flow (perm)                0    3315         0           0   3238        0        0    2965        0        0    2413        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                         Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                         2                           18                        32                        21
Link Speed (mph)                        30                            30                        30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                     884                          1883                      1359                       423
Travel Time (s)                        20.1                         42.8                      30.9                       9.6
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)             20                14       14                 20       23               32       32               23
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                1                           2                         1
Peak Hour Factor              0.85     0.85     0.85     0.85       0.85    0.85     0.85     0.85    0.85     0.85     0.85     0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                 15      876       15       15        693      87       87      600     125       55      264       40
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      906        0        0        795        0       0      812        0       0      359        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No      No        No         No      No       No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left   Right      Left       Left   Right     Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          0                            0                         0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                         0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                        16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                      Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                          1                            1                         2                         2
Permitted Phases                 1                             1                        2                         2
Detector Phase                   1        1                    1       1                2        2                2        2
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              19.0     19.0              19.0       19.0             26.0     26.0             26.0     26.0
Total Split (s)                19.0     19.0     0.0      19.0       19.0     0.0     26.0     26.0     0.0     26.0     26.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              27.1%    27.1%    0.0%     27.1%      27.1%    0.0%    37.1%    37.1%    0.0%    37.1%    37.1%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              14.0     14.0              14.0       14.0             21.0     21.0             21.0     21.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0        1.0              1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                      Lead     Lead              Lead       Lead               Lag      Lag              Lag      Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0      3.0               3.0        3.0              3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Min    C-Min             C-Min      C-Min             Max      Max              Max      Max
Walk Time (s)
Flash Dont Walk (s)
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                               Page 11
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                  10/7/2011



Lane Group                      ø3
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
Lane Util. Factor
Ped Bike Factor
Frt
Flt Protected
Satd. Flow (prot)
Flt Permitted
Satd. Flow (perm)
Right Turn on Red
Satd. Flow (RTOR)
Link Speed (mph)
Link Distance (ft)
Travel Time (s)
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)
Peak Hour Factor
Adj. Flow (vph)
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
Enter Blocked Intersection
Lane Alignment
Median Width(ft)
Link Offset(ft)
Crosswalk Width(ft)
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor
Turn Type
Protected Phases                 3
Permitted Phases
Detector Phase
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)            4.0
Minimum Split (s)             25.0
Total Split (s)               25.0
Total Split (%)               36%
Maximum Green (s)             22.0
Yellow Time (s)                3.0
All-Red Time (s)               0.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)
Total Lost Time (s)
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0
Recall Mode                   None
Walk Time (s)                   7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            15.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                            Page 12
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                                                               10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR          NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Act Effct Green (s)                    36.0                       36.0                       23.0                23.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                     0.51                       0.51                       0.33                0.33
v/c Ratio                              0.53                       0.47                       0.82                0.44
Control Delay                          17.3                       23.2                       29.0                19.5
Queue Delay                              0.0                       0.0                        0.0                 0.0
Total Delay                            17.3                       23.2                       29.0                19.5
LOS                                        B                         C                          C                   B
Approach Delay                         17.3                       23.2                       29.0                19.5
Approach LOS                               B                         C                          C                   B
Queue Length 50th (ft)                   71                        103                        108                  40
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 #230                       #196                        143                  60
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 804                       1803                       1279                343
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                    1705                       1674                       996                 807
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0                          0                          0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn                     0                          0                          0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                       0                          0                          0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.53                       0.47                       0.82                0.44
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 70
Actuated Cycle Length: 70
Offset: 40 (57%), Referenced to phase 1:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.82
Intersection Signal Delay: 22.5                               Intersection LOS: C
Intersection Capacity Utilization 73.7%                       ICU Level of Service D
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

Splits and Phases:   6: JAMES ST & LODI ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                         Page 13
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                  10/7/2011



Lane Group                      ø3
Act Effct Green (s)
Actuated g/C Ratio
v/c Ratio
Control Delay
Queue Delay
Total Delay
LOS
Approach Delay
Approach LOS
Queue Length 50th (ft)
Queue Length 95th (ft)
Internal Link Dist (ft)
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
Starvation Cap Reductn
Spillback Cap Reductn
Storage Cap Reductn
Reduced v/c Ratio
Intersection Summary




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                            Page 14
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
7: JAMES ST & OAK ST                                                                                                        10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL     EBT      EBR      WBL        WBT     WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    30      826      42        66        538      25       74      109      53       30      169      64
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900     1900      1900      1900     1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900
Lane Util. Factor             0.95     0.95    0.95      0.95       0.95    0.95     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                        1.00                         1.00                      0.99                      0.99
Frt                                   0.993                        0.994                     0.970                     0.967
Flt Protected                         0.998                        0.995                     0.985                     0.994
Satd. Flow (prot)                0    3496         0           0   3493        0        0    1768        0        0    1779        0
Flt Permitted                         0.918                        0.777                     0.720                     0.946
Satd. Flow (perm)                0    3215         0           0   2725        0        0    1289        0        0    1691        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                         Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                        10                            9                       25                        28
Link Speed (mph)                         30                           30                       30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                     1883                         1028                      495                       602
Travel Time (s)                        42.8                         23.4                      11.3                      13.7
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)             13                23       23                 13       14               18       18               14
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                2                           5
Peak Hour Factor              0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90       0.90    0.90     0.90     0.90    0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90
Adj. Flow (vph)                 33      918       47       73        598      28       82      121      59       33      188       71
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      998        0        0        699        0       0      262        0       0      292        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No      No        No         No      No       No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left   Right      Left       Left   Right     Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          0                            0                         0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                         0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                        16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                      Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                          2                            2                         4                         4
Permitted Phases                 2                             2                        4                         4
Detector Phase                   2        2                    2       2                4        4                4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              39.0     39.0              39.0       39.0             31.0     31.0             31.0     31.0
Total Split (s)                39.0     39.0     0.0      39.0       39.0     0.0     31.0     31.0     0.0     31.0     31.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              55.7%    55.7%    0.0%     55.7%      55.7%    0.0%    44.3%    44.3%    0.0%    44.3%    44.3%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              34.0     34.0              34.0       34.0             26.0     26.0             26.0     26.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0        1.0              1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                  3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                C-Max C-Max                 None     None             None     None
Walk Time (s)                   7.0   7.0                  7.0   7.0                  7.0      7.0              7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)             9.0   9.0                  9.0   9.0                 13.0     13.0             13.0     13.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5     5                    5     5                    5        5                5        5

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                               Page 15
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
7: JAMES ST & OAK ST                                                                                                10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL     EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR          NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Act Effct Green (s)                    45.3                       45.3                       18.7                18.7
Actuated g/C Ratio                     0.65                       0.65                       0.27                0.27
v/c Ratio                              0.48                       0.40                       0.72                0.62
Control Delay                          13.6                       11.2                       31.9                25.2
Queue Delay                             0.0                        0.0                        0.0                 0.0
Total Delay                            13.6                       11.2                       31.9                25.2
LOS                                       B                          B                          C                   C
Approach Delay                         13.6                       11.2                       31.9                25.2
Approach LOS                              B                          B                          C                   C
Queue Length 50th (ft)                 123                          39                         63                  67
Queue Length 95th (ft)                m190                         130                       100                 101
Internal Link Dist (ft)               1803                         948                       415                 522
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                    2084                       1767                       531                 693
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0                          0                          0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn                     0                          0                          0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                       0                          0                          0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.48                       0.40                       0.49                0.42
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 70
Actuated Cycle Length: 70
Offset: 43 (61%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 70
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.72
Intersection Signal Delay: 16.5                               Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 80.8%                       ICU Level of Service D
Analysis Period (min) 15
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   7: JAMES ST & OAK ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                         Page 16
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
8: JAMES ST & DEWITT ST                                                                                                     10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL     EBT      EBR      WBL        WBT     WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    54      847       8         1        551     136       24        0       6      179        4      54
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900    1900     1900      1900      1900     1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900
Lane Util. Factor             0.95     0.95    0.95      0.95       0.95    0.95     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                        1.00                         0.99                      0.99                      0.98
Frt                                   0.999                        0.970                     0.971                     0.969
Flt Protected                         0.997                                                  0.962                     0.964
Satd. Flow (prot)                0    3524         0           0   3398        0        0    1727        0        0    1733        0
Flt Permitted                         0.870                        0.954                     0.791                     0.757
Satd. Flow (perm)                0    3073         0           0   3242        0        0    1418        0        0    1338        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                         Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                         2                           77                         7                       22
Link Speed (mph)                         30                           30                        30                       30
Link Distance (ft)                     1028                          271                       427                      658
Travel Time (s)                        23.4                          6.2                       9.7                      15.0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)             14                 4           4              14        4               22       22                 4
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                4                           2                                                    2
Peak Hour Factor              0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92       0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                 59      921        9        1        599     148       26        0       7      195        4       59
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      989        0        0        748        0       0       33        0       0      258        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No      No        No         No      No       No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left   Right      Left       Left   Right     Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          0                            0                         0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                         0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                        16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                      Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                          2                            2                         4                         4
Permitted Phases                 2                             2                        4                         4
Detector Phase                   2        2                    2       2                4        4                4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              45.0     45.0              45.0       45.0             25.0     25.0             25.0     25.0
Total Split (s)                45.0     45.0     0.0      45.0       45.0     0.0     25.0     25.0     0.0     25.0     25.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              64.3%    64.3%    0.0%     64.3%      64.3%    0.0%    35.7%    35.7%    0.0%    35.7%    35.7%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              40.0     40.0              40.0       40.0             20.0     20.0             20.0     20.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0      4.0               4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0        1.0              1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                  3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                C-Max C-Max                 None     None             None     None
Walk Time (s)                   7.0   7.0                  7.0   7.0                  7.0      7.0              7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)             9.0   9.0                  9.0   9.0                 13.0     13.0             13.0     13.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5     5                    5     5                    5        5                5        5

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                               Page 17
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
8: JAMES ST & DEWITT ST                                                                                             10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR          NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Act Effct Green (s)                     45.6                      45.6                       18.4                18.4
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.65                      0.65                       0.26                0.26
v/c Ratio                               0.49                      0.35                       0.09                0.70
Control Delay                            4.2                       7.3                       15.3                31.4
Queue Delay                              0.0                       0.0                        0.0                 0.0
Total Delay                              4.2                       7.3                       15.3                31.4
LOS                                        A                         A                          B                   C
Approach Delay                           4.2                       7.3                       15.3                31.4
Approach LOS                               A                         A                          B                   C
Queue Length 50th (ft)                    15                        24                          6                  61
Queue Length 95th (ft)                    18                        91                         18                107
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 948                        191                       347                 578
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                    2002                       2138                       450                 436
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0                          0                          0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn                    36                          0                          0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                       0                          0                          0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.50                       0.35                       0.07                0.59
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 70
Actuated Cycle Length: 70
Offset: 68 (97%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 70
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.70
Intersection Signal Delay: 9.0                                Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 69.8%                       ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   8: JAMES ST & DEWITT ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                         Page 18
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
9: JAMES ST & SEDGEWICK ST                                                                  10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT        NBL     NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                   880      152       29      585        103      30
Ideal Flow (vphpl)           1900      1900     1900     1900      1900     1900
Lane Util. Factor             0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95       1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor               0.99                        1.00      0.98
Frt                          0.978                                 0.969
Flt Protected                                           0.998      0.963
Satd. Flow (prot)             3431        0        0    3532       1732        0
Flt Permitted                                           0.882      0.963
Satd. Flow (perm)             3431        0        0    3121       1710        0
Right Turn on Red                       Yes                                  Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)               54                                    21
Link Speed (mph)                30                         30         30
Link Distance (ft)             271                       1437        521
Travel Time (s)                6.2                       32.7       11.8
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                      18       18                  14       2
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                       2                                    1
Peak Hour Factor               0.98    0.98     0.98     0.98       0.98    0.98
Adj. Flow (vph)                898     155        30      597        105      31
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)         1053        0        0      627        136        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No      No        No       No         No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left   Right      Left     Left       Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                 0                          0         12
Link Offset(ft)                  0                          0          0
Crosswalk Width(ft)             16                         16         16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00
Turn Type                                      Perm
Protected Phases                 2                             2       4
Permitted Phases                                   2
Detector Phase                   2                 2           2       4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0               4.0      4.0        4.0
Minimum Split (s)              47.0              47.0     47.0       23.0
Total Split (s)                47.0      0.0     47.0     47.0       23.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              67.1%     0.0%    67.1%    67.1%      32.9%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              42.0              42.0     42.0       18.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0               4.0      4.0        4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0               1.0      1.0        1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0       -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0               3.0   3.0          3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max             C-Max C-Max          Max
Walk Time (s)                   7.0               7.0   7.0          7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)             9.0               9.0   9.0         11.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5                 5     5            5

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                        Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                 Page 19
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
9: JAMES ST & SEDGEWICK ST                                                                     10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      NBL      NBR
Act Effct Green (s)            44.0                      44.0     20.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.63                      0.63     0.29
v/c Ratio                      0.48                      0.32     0.27
Control Delay                   8.3                       5.9     18.0
Queue Delay                     0.3                       0.0      0.0
Total Delay                     8.6                       5.9     18.0
LOS                               A                         A        B
Approach Delay                  8.6                       5.9     18.0
Approach LOS                      A                         A        B
Queue Length 50th (ft)         141                         33       26
Queue Length 95th (ft)           93                        43       54
Internal Link Dist (ft)        191                       1357      441
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)           2177                       1962      510
Starvation Cap Reductn         457                          0        0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0                          0        0
Storage Cap Reductn              0                          0        0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.61                       0.32     0.27
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 70
Actuated Cycle Length: 70
Offset: 12 (17%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 70
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.48
Intersection Signal Delay: 8.3                                Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 59.3%                       ICU Level of Service B
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   9: JAMES ST & SEDGEWICK ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                           Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                    Page 20
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
10: JAMES ST & WILSON ST                                                                    10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT        NBL     NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                   902        8       28       595        19      22
Ideal Flow (vphpl)           1900      1900     1900     1900      1900     1900
Lane Util. Factor             0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95       1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor               1.00                        1.00      1.00
Frt                          0.999                                 0.928
Flt Protected                                           0.998      0.977
Satd. Flow (prot)             3534        0        0    3532       1689        0
Flt Permitted                                           0.892      0.977
Satd. Flow (perm)             3534        0        0    3156       1688        0
Right Turn on Red                       Yes                                  Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                2                                    24
Link Speed (mph)                30                         30         30
Link Distance (ft)            1437                       1093        701
Travel Time (s)               32.7                       24.8       15.9
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                      20       20                   1
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                       6
Peak Hour Factor               0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92       0.92    0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                980        9       30      647         21      24
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)          989       0         0      677         45       0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No      No        No       No         No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left   Right      Left     Left       Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                12                         12         12
Link Offset(ft)                  0                          0          0
Crosswalk Width(ft)             16                         16         16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00
Turn Type                                      Perm
Protected Phases                 2                             2       4
Permitted Phases                                   2
Detector Phase                   2                 2           2       4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0               4.0      4.0        4.0
Minimum Split (s)              45.0              45.0     45.0       25.0
Total Split (s)                45.0      0.0     45.0     45.0       25.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              64.3%     0.0%    64.3%    64.3%      35.7%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              40.0              40.0     40.0       20.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0               4.0      4.0        4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0               1.0      1.0        1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0       -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0               3.0   3.0          3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max             C-Max C-Max         None
Walk Time (s)                   7.0               7.0   7.0          7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            10.0              10.0  10.0         13.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5                 5     5            5

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                        Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                 Page 21
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
10: JAMES ST & WILSON ST                                                                         10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT        NBL      NBR
Act Effct Green (s)           58.5                       58.5       10.9
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.84                       0.84       0.16
v/c Ratio                     0.33                       0.26       0.16
Control Delay                 10.6                        3.2       14.7
Queue Delay                     0.0                       0.0        0.0
Total Delay                   10.6                        3.2       14.7
LOS                               B                         A          B
Approach Delay                10.6                        3.2       14.7
Approach LOS                      B                         A          B
Queue Length 50th (ft)         137                         17          6
Queue Length 95th (ft)         198                         67         18
Internal Link Dist (ft)       1357                       1013        621
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)           2953                       2637        547
Starvation Cap Reductn           0                          0          0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0                          0          0
Storage Cap Reductn              0                          0          0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.33                       0.26       0.08
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 70
Actuated Cycle Length: 70
Offset: 0 (0%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 70
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.33
Intersection Signal Delay: 7.8                                  Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 47.1%                         ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   10: JAMES ST & WILSON ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                             Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                      Page 22
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
11: JAMES ST & TEALL AVE                                                                                                     10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL     EBT      EBR      WBL        WBT      WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                   238      510     176       185        378       34      125      478     101       25      524     120
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900     1900    1900      1900       1900     1900     1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)            160                0        125                  0        0                0        0                0
Storage Lanes                    1                0          1                  0        0                0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)               25               25         25                 25       25               25       25               25
Lane Util. Factor             1.00     0.95    0.95      1.00       0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95    0.95     0.95     0.95    0.95
Ped Bike Factor               0.99     0.99               0.99      1.00                       1.00                      0.99
Frt                                   0.962                        0.988                      0.978                     0.973
Flt Protected                0.950                      0.950                                 0.991                     0.998
Satd. Flow (prot)            1770      3360        0    1770        3485        0        0    3422        0        0    3386        0
Flt Permitted                0.950                      0.950                                 0.624                     0.904
Satd. Flow (perm)            1744      3360        0    1745        3485        0        0    2155        0        0    3067        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                          Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                        37                            7                         17                        18
Link Speed (mph)                         30                           30                         30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                     1093                         2248                        180                       188
Travel Time (s)                        24.8                         51.1                        4.1                       4.3
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)             11                16       16                  11       29                2        2               29
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                1                            1
Peak Hour Factor              0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92        0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)               259      554      191      201         411       37      136      520     110       27      570      130
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)          259      745       0       201        448        0        0      766       0        0      727       0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No      No        No         No       No       No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left   Right      Left       Left    Right     Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                         12                           12                          0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                          0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                         16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00        1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Prot                       Prot                        pm+pt                     Perm
Protected Phases                 1        6                 5           2                7        4                         8
Permitted Phases                                                                         4                         8
Detector Phase                   1        6                    5        2                7        4                8        8
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             5.0      5.0               5.0         5.0              5.0      5.0              5.0      5.0
Minimum Split (s)               9.5     22.0               9.5       22.0              10.0     22.0             22.0     22.0
Total Split (s)                25.0     50.0     0.0      25.0       50.0      0.0     25.0     65.0     0.0     40.0     40.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              17.9%    35.7%    0.0%     17.9%      35.7%     0.0%    17.9%    46.4%    0.0%    28.6%    28.6%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              20.5     45.0              20.5       45.0              20.0     60.0             35.0     35.0
Yellow Time (s)                 3.5      4.0               3.5         4.0              4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0               1.0         1.0              1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0       -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             2.5      3.0      3.0      2.5        3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                      Lead       Lag             Lead         Lag             Lead                        Lag      Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0      3.0               3.0        3.0               3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                   None      Min             None         Min             None     None             None     None

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                       Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                Page 23
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
11: JAMES ST & TEALL AVE                                                                                           10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT     EBR     WBL     WBT      WBR         NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL     SBT     SBR
Walk Time (s)                            7.0                      7.0                       7.0          7.0     7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)                    10.0                     10.0                       10.0         10.0    10.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)                    5                        5                         5            5       5
Act Effct Green (s)           22.2     33.2              19.6   30.7                       52.9                 52.9
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.19     0.29              0.17   0.27                       0.46                 0.46
v/c Ratio                     0.76     0.74              0.66   0.48                       0.76                 0.51
Control Delay                 62.5     41.3              59.5   37.0                       32.1                 23.4
Queue Delay                    0.0       0.0              0.0    0.0                        0.0                  0.0
Total Delay                   62.5     41.3              59.5   37.0                       32.1                 23.4
LOS                              E        D                 E      D                          C                    C
Approach Delay                         46.8                     44.0                       32.1                 23.4
Approach LOS                              D                        D                          C                    C
Queue Length 50th (ft)         136      188              103     106                       166                   133
Queue Length 95th (ft)        #264      245              177     143                       258                   200
Internal Link Dist (ft)                1013                     2168                       100                   108
Turn Bay Length (ft)          160                        125
Base Capacity (vph)           363      1459              363    1495                       1224                1448
Starvation Cap Reductn           0        0                 0      0                          0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0        0                 0      0                          0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn              0        0                 0      0                          0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.71     0.51              0.55   0.30                       0.63                0.50
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 140
Actuated Cycle Length: 114.6
Natural Cycle: 70
Control Type: Actuated-Uncoordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.76
Intersection Signal Delay: 37.2                             Intersection LOS: D
Intersection Capacity Utilization 83.3%                     ICU Level of Service E
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

Splits and Phases:   11: JAMES ST & TEALL AVE




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                               Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                        Page 24
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                                                                        10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL     EBT      EBR      WBL        WBT     WBR      NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     0      574       62       14        470       0       42        0      77      329       72      85
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900     1900    1900      1900       1900    1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900     1900
Lane Util. Factor             1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                                 0.96                 1.00                     0.98                      0.98
Frt                                            0.850                                         0.913                     0.976
Flt Protected                                                      0.999                     0.983                     0.967
Satd. Flow (prot)                0     1863     1583           0   1861        0        0    1637        0        0    1726        0
Flt Permitted                                                      0.981                     0.876                     0.698
Satd. Flow (perm)                0     1863     1525           0   1827        0        0    1458        0        0    1238        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                         Yes                       Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                                 63                                            79                         9
Link Speed (mph)                         30                           30                        30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                     2248                          208                       239                       142
Travel Time (s)                        51.1                          4.7                       5.4                       3.2
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)             26                23       23                 26       47                4        4                47
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                1                           6                                                    7
Peak Hour Factor              0.98     0.98     0.98     0.98       0.98    0.98     0.98     0.98    0.98     0.98     0.98     0.98
Adj. Flow (vph)                  0      586       63       14        480       0       43        0      79      336       73       87
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      586       63        0        494        0       0      122        0       0      496        0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No      No        No         No      No       No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left   Right      Left       Left   Right     Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                         12                           12                         0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                           0                            0                         0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                      16                           16                        16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turning Speed (mph)             15                 9       15                  9       15                9       15                 9
Turn Type                                      Perm     Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                       124                          124                          3                         3
Permitted Phases                                124      124                            3                         3
Detector Phase                         124      124      124        124                 3        3                3        3
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)                                                                    8.0      8.0              8.0      8.0
Minimum Split (s)                                                                     22.0     22.0             22.0     22.0
Total Split (s)                 0.0     78.0     78.0     78.0       78.0     0.0     30.0     30.0     0.0     30.0     30.0     0.0
Total Split (%)               0.0%    72.2%    72.2%    72.2%      72.2%    0.0%    27.8%    27.8%    0.0%    27.8%    27.8%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)                                                                     25.5     25.5             25.5     25.5
Yellow Time (s)                                                                        3.5      3.5              3.5      3.5
All-Red Time (s)                                                                       1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)            0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Total Lost Time (s)             4.0     4.5      4.5      4.5        4.5      4.0      4.5      4.5     4.0      4.5      4.5     4.0
Lead/Lag                                                                             Lead     Lead             Lead     Lead
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)                                                                 3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                                                                         None     None             None     None
Walk Time (s)                                                                         7.0      7.0              7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)                                                                  10.0     10.0             10.0     10.0

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                      Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                               Page 25
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                   10/7/2011



Lane Group                      ø1       ø2       ø4
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
Lane Util. Factor
Ped Bike Factor
Frt
Flt Protected
Satd. Flow (prot)
Flt Permitted
Satd. Flow (perm)
Right Turn on Red
Satd. Flow (RTOR)
Link Speed (mph)
Link Distance (ft)
Travel Time (s)
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)
Peak Hour Factor
Adj. Flow (vph)
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
Enter Blocked Intersection
Lane Alignment
Median Width(ft)
Link Offset(ft)
Crosswalk Width(ft)
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor
Turning Speed (mph)
Turn Type
Protected Phases                 1        2        4
Permitted Phases
Detector Phase
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)            5.0     10.0      5.0
Minimum Split (s)              9.5     22.0      9.5
Total Split (s)               13.0     40.0     25.0
Total Split (%)               12%      37%      23%
Maximum Green (s)              8.5     35.5     20.5
Yellow Time (s)                3.5      3.5      3.5
All-Red Time (s)               1.0      1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)
Total Lost Time (s)
Lead/Lag                      Lead      Lag      Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0      3.0     3.0
Recall Mode                   None      Min    None
Walk Time (s)                           7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)                    10.0

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                            Page 26
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                                                              10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL     EBT      EBR     WBL     WBT      WBR         NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL     SBT    SBR
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)                                                                5      5           5       5
Act Effct Green (s)                    72.8     72.8             72.8                      25.5                25.5
Actuated g/C Ratio                     0.68     0.68             0.68                      0.24                0.24
v/c Ratio                              0.46     0.06             0.40                      0.30                1.65
Control Delay                           9.5      1.6              3.3                      16.0               334.9
Queue Delay                             0.8      0.0              0.9                       0.1               379.0
Total Delay                            10.3      1.6              4.2                      16.0               713.9
LOS                                       B        A                A                         B                   F
Approach Delay                          9.4                       4.2                      16.0               713.9
Approach LOS                              A                         A                         B                   F
Queue Length 50th (ft)                  115        0               11                        16               ~341
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  163        9               40                        50                #482
Internal Link Dist (ft)                2168                      128                       159                   62
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                    1260    1052             1235                       407                 301
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0       0              456                          0                106
Spillback Cap Reductn                   365       0                 0                        15                   2
Storage Cap Reductn                       0       0                 0                         0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.65    0.06              0.63                      0.31                2.54
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 108
Actuated Cycle Length: 107.3
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Uncoordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 1.65
Intersection Signal Delay: 206.8                            Intersection LOS: F
Intersection Capacity Utilization 78.0%                     ICU Level of Service D
Analysis Period (min) 15
~ Volume exceeds capacity, queue is theoretically infinite.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

Splits and Phases:   12: JAMES ST & Grant




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                              Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                       Page 27
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                   10/7/2011



Lane Group                      ø1       ø2       ø4
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)                   5
Act Effct Green (s)
Actuated g/C Ratio
v/c Ratio
Control Delay
Queue Delay
Total Delay
LOS
Approach Delay
Approach LOS
Queue Length 50th (ft)
Queue Length 95th (ft)
Internal Link Dist (ft)
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
Starvation Cap Reductn
Spillback Cap Reductn
Storage Cap Reductn
Reduced v/c Ratio
Intersection Summary




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                            Page 28
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
13: James S & Walgreens                                                                                                  10/7/2011



Lane Group                    EBL2     EBL      EBT      WBT        WBR     WBR2     SBL     SBR     SBR2    SEL     SER       ø3
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    91      109      780      452        386      10       38      32      12       0       0
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900     1900     1900     1900      1900     1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)                      75                          150                0       0               0       0
Storage Lanes                             1                            1                1       0               0       0
Taper Length (ft)                        25                           25               25      25              25      25
Lane Util. Factor              1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                                                     0.81             0.97
Frt                                                                0.850            0.928
Flt Protected                         0.950                                         0.977
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0   1770      1863     1863       1583       0    1689        0       0       0       0
Flt Permitted                         0.344                                         0.977
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0     641     1863     1863       1277       0    1635        0       0       0       0
Right Turn on Red                                                            Yes                      Yes             Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                                                      1                7
Link Speed (mph)                                  30      30                           30                      30
Link Distance (ft)                               208     618                          139                     186
Travel Time (s)                                  4.7     14.0                         3.2                     4.2
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              26                                   26       26      26
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                                    6        6
Peak Hour Factor               0.98    0.98     0.98     0.98       0.98     0.98    0.98    0.98    0.98    0.98    0.98
Adj. Flow (vph)                  93     111      796      461        394       10      39      33      12       0       0
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            0      204      796      461       404         0      84        0       0      0       0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No       No       No        No       No       No      No      No      No      No
Lane Alignment                 Left     Left     Left     Left     Right    Right     Left   Right   Right    Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                                  12       12                          12                       0
Link Offset(ft)                                    0        0                           0                       0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                               16       16                          16                      16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00   1.00      1.00     1.00       1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Turning Speed (mph)               15     15                            9        9      15       9       9      15       9
Turn Type                    custom custom                         Perm
Protected Phases                          1     123            2                        4                                       3
Permitted Phases                 23     23                             2
Detector Phase                   23       1     123            2       2                4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)                      5.0              10.0       10.0              5.0                                     8.0
Minimum Split (s)                        9.5              22.0       22.0              9.5                                    22.0
Total Split (s)                70.0     13.0     83.0     40.0       40.0     0.0     25.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    30.0
Total Split (%)              64.8%    12.0%    76.9%    37.0%      37.0%    0.0%    23.1%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%     28%
Maximum Green (s)                        8.5              35.5       35.5             20.5                                    25.5
Yellow Time (s)                          3.5               3.5        3.5              3.5                                     3.5
All-Red Time (s)                         1.0               1.0        1.0              1.0                                     1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)            0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0        0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0
Total Lost Time (s)             4.5      4.5     4.5       4.5        4.5     4.0      4.5     4.0     4.0    4.0      4.0
Lead/Lag                               Lead                Lag        Lag              Lag                                   Lead
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)                   3.0               3.0        3.0              3.0                                      3.0

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                    Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                             Page 29
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
13: James S & Walgreens                                                                                             10/7/2011



Lane Group                   EBL2      EBL      EBT     WBT      WBR     WBR2      SBL       SBR   SBR2   SEL    SER       ø3
Recall Mode                           None               Min      Min             None                                   None
Walk Time (s)                                             7.0     7.0                                                      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)                                     10.0     10.0                                                     10.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)                                     5       5                                                        5
Act Effct Green (s)                    74.0     78.5    35.5     35.5                 19.8
Actuated g/C Ratio                     0.69     0.73    0.33     0.33                 0.18
v/c Ratio                              0.38     0.58    0.75     0.96                 0.26
Control Delay                           7.2     10.6    41.0     70.5                 36.7
Queue Delay                             0.5      2.1     0.0      0.0                  0.0
Total Delay                             7.7     12.7    41.0     70.5                 36.7
LOS                                       A        B       D        E                    D
Approach Delay                                  11.7    54.8                          36.7
Approach LOS                                       B       D                             D
Queue Length 50th (ft)                  38       190     192      185                   31
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 m40     m186      277     #322                   62
Internal Link Dist (ft)                          128     538                            59                106
Turn Bay Length (ft)                     75                        150
Base Capacity (vph)                    531     1363       616      423                328
Starvation Cap Reductn                   96     405         0        0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn                     0       0         0        0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                       0       0         0        0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.47    0.83      0.75     0.96                0.26
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 108
Actuated Cycle Length: 107.3
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Uncoordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 1.65
Intersection Signal Delay: 31.9                              Intersection LOS: C
Intersection Capacity Utilization 53.4%                      ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   13: James S & Walgreens




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                                Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                         Page 30
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
1: JAMES ST & OSWEGO BLVD                                                                                                    10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR        NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     12      551      206        89     465       6        166        1       7        0        0       0
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900     1900    1900      1900     1900    1900       1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             150               150      150                0          0                0        0                0
Storage Lanes                     1                 1         1               0          1                0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)                25                25        25              25         25               25       25               25
Lane Util. Factor              1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00       0.95     0.95    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                1.00              0.97      1.00    1.00                        0.99
Frt                                             0.850             0.998                       0.988
Flt Protected                 0.950                      0.950                       0.950    0.957
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      1863     1583    1770      1858        0     1681     1664        0        0     1863       0
Flt Permitted                 0.390                      0.334                       0.950    0.950
Satd. Flow (perm)               726     1863     1531      619     1858       0      1681     1652        0        0     1863       0
Right Turn on Red                                 Yes                       Yes                         Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                                 231                 1                           6
Link Speed (mph)                          30                        30                           30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                       229                       537                          242                       134
Travel Time (s)                          5.2                       12.2                         5.5                       3.0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)               2                19       19                 2        14               23       23               14
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                          4                          1
Peak Hour Factor               0.89     0.89     0.89     0.89     0.89     0.89      0.89     0.89    0.89     0.89     0.89     0.89
Adj. Flow (vph)                  13      619      231      100      522        7       187        1       8        0        0        0
Shared Lane Traffic (%)                                                               47%
Lane Group Flow (vph)            13      619     231       100      529       0         99       97       0        0        0       0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No        No       No      No         No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right       Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                         12                          12                        12
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                           0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                          16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turning Speed (mph)              15                 9       15                 9        15                9       15                 9
Turn Type                     Perm              Perm     Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                           1                          1                           2                         3
Permitted Phases                  1                 1        1                           2                         3
Detector Phase                    1        1        1        1        1                  2        2                3        3
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0       4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0                4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              37.0      37.0     37.0     37.0     37.0               25.0     25.0             18.0     18.0
Total Split (s)                37.0      37.0     37.0     37.0     37.0     0.0       25.0     25.0     0.0     18.0     18.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              46.3%     46.3%    46.3%    46.3%    46.3%    0.0%      31.3%    31.3%    0.0%    22.5%    22.5%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              32.0      32.0     32.0     32.0     32.0               20.0     20.0             13.0     13.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0                4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0                1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0       -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      4.0      3.0      3.0     3.0        3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                      Lead      Lead     Lead     Lead     Lead                 Lag      Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0                3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                                 Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                 Page 1
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
1: JAMES ST & OSWEGO BLVD                                                                                             10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL   EBT   EBR  WBL   WBT                  WBR         NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL    SBT     SBR
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max C-Max C-Max C-Max                             Max    Max          None   None
Walk Time (s)                   7.0   7.0   7.0   7.0   7.0                             7.0    7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            15.0  15.0  15.0  15.0  15.0                            12.0   12.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5     5     5     5     5                               5      5
Act Effct Green (s)            52.0  52.0  51.0  52.0  52.0                            22.0   22.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.65  0.65  0.64  0.65  0.65                            0.28   0.28
v/c Ratio                      0.03  0.51  0.22  0.25  0.44                            0.21   0.21
Control Delay                   5.2   9.2   1.4   7.2   6.9                            23.9   22.4
Queue Delay                     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0                             0.0    0.0
Total Delay                     5.2   9.2   1.4   7.2   6.9                            23.9   22.4
LOS                               A     A     A     A     A                               C      C
Approach Delay                        7.0               7.0                                   23.2
Approach LOS                            A                 A                                      C
Queue Length 50th (ft)            1    97     0     7    41                             27      25
Queue Length 95th (ft)            5   145    15  m21     91                             53      51
Internal Link Dist (ft)               149               457                                    162                   54
Turn Bay Length (ft)           150          150   150
Base Capacity (vph)            472  1211  1060    402 1208                             462    459
Starvation Cap Reductn            0     0     0     0     0                               0      0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0     0     0     0     0                               0      0
Storage Cap Reductn               0     0     0     0     0                               0      0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.03  0.51  0.22  0.25  0.44                            0.21   0.21
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 70 (88%), Referenced to phase 1:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.51
Intersection Signal Delay: 8.9                                Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 59.8%                       ICU Level of Service B
Analysis Period (min) 15
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   1: JAMES ST & OSWEGO BLVD




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                            Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                            Page 2
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
2: JAMES ST & STATE ST                                                                                                       10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR       NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     78      425      55       160      503      169         35     230      40      122      419      22
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900     1900    1900      1900     1900    1900       1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             150                0       150               150       120                0       120               0
Storage Lanes                     1                0         1                 1          1               0         1               0
Taper Length (ft)                25               25        25                25         25              25        25              25
Lane Util. Factor              1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     0.95    0.95     1.00     0.95    0.95
Ped Bike Factor                1.00     0.99                                0.98       0.98    0.99              0.99    1.00
Frt                                    0.983                               0.850              0.978                     0.992
Flt Protected                 0.950                      0.950                       0.950                     0.950
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      1820        0    1770      1863     1583     1770      3443       0    1770      3500       0
Flt Permitted                 0.434                      0.148                       0.478                     0.461
Satd. Flow (perm)               805     1820        0      276     1863     1555       872     3443       0      847     3500       0
Right Turn on Red                                 Yes                        Yes                        Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                          8                                 184                 25                         9
Link Speed (mph)                         30                         30                           30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      537                        777                          389                       292
Travel Time (s)                         12.2                       17.7                         8.8                       6.6
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)               7                28       28                 7        17               10       10               17
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                          4
Peak Hour Factor               0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92      0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                  85      462       60      174      547      184        38      250      43      133      455       24
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            85      522        0      174      547     184         38      293        0     133      479        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No        No       No      No         No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right       Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                         12                          12                        12
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                           0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                          16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       pm+pt             Perm      Perm                      pm+pt
Protected Phases                           2                 1        6                           4                3        8
Permitted Phases                  2                          6                 6         4                         8
Detector Phase                    2        2                 1        6        6         4        4                3        8
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0      4.0       4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              24.0      24.0              14.0     38.0     38.0      27.0     27.0             12.0     39.0
Total Split (s)                27.0      27.0     0.0      14.0     41.0     41.0      27.0     27.0     0.0     12.0     39.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              33.8%     33.8%    0.0%     17.5%    51.3%    51.3%     33.8%    33.8%    0.0%    15.0%    48.8%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              22.0      22.0               9.0     36.0     36.0      22.0     22.0              7.0     34.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0      4.0       4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0               1.0      1.0      1.0       1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0      -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                       Lag       Lag              Lead                          Lag      Lag            Lead
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                  3.0   3.0   3.0             3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                  Max C-Max C-Max             Max      Max              Max      Max

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                                 Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                 Page 3
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
2: JAMES ST & STATE ST                                                                                               10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL       EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR   SBL     SBT     SBR
Walk Time (s)                   7.0       7.0                                                                      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            10.0     10.0                                                                      10.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5         5                                                                        5
Act Effct Green (s)            24.0     24.0              38.0     38.0     38.0      24.0   24.0         36.0    36.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.30     0.30              0.48     0.48     0.48      0.30   0.30         0.45    0.45
v/c Ratio                      0.35     0.95              0.52     0.62     0.22      0.15   0.28         0.27    0.30
Control Delay                  18.9     47.3              14.1     16.9      3.6      22.4   20.4         14.8    14.4
Queue Delay                     0.0       0.0              0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0    0.0          0.0     0.0
Total Delay                    18.9     47.3              14.1     16.9      3.6      22.4   20.4         14.8    14.4
LOS                               B        D                 B        B        A         C      C            B       B
Approach Delay                          43.3                       13.7                      20.6                 14.5
Approach LOS                               D                          B                         C                    B
Queue Length 50th (ft)          23       170               38       149      13         9      36          26       51
Queue Length 95th (ft)         m50      #101              m47     m223      m17        25      57          48       74
Internal Link Dist (ft)                  457                        697                       309                  212
Turn Bay Length (ft)           150                        150                150       120                120
Base Capacity (vph)            242      552               337      885      835       262    1050         485    1580
Starvation Cap Reductn            0        0                 0        0        0         0      0            0      0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0        0                 0        0        0         0      0            0      0
Storage Cap Reductn               0        0                 0        0        0         0      0            0      0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.35     0.95              0.52     0.62     0.22      0.15   0.28         0.27   0.30
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 75 (94%), Referenced to phase 2:EBTL and 6:WBTL, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.95
Intersection Signal Delay: 22.1                              Intersection LOS: C
Intersection Capacity Utilization 68.3%                      ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   2: JAMES ST & STATE ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                           Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                           Page 4
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
3: JAMES ST & TOWNSEND ST                                                                                                     10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR        NBL      NBT      NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     29      517      41         74     633      71        169      333       59        26     214      30
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900     1900    1900      1900     1900    1900       1900     1900    1900      1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             150                0        150               0         105                0       150               0
Storage Lanes                     1                0          1               0           1                1         1               0
Taper Length (ft)                25               25         25              25          25               25        25              25
Lane Util. Factor              1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                         1.00               0.99    1.00                0.98             0.96      0.99    0.99
Frt                                    0.989                      0.985                                0.850             0.982
Flt Protected                 0.950                      0.950                       0.950                      0.950
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      1834        0    1770      1826        0     1770      1863     1583    1770      1817       0
Flt Permitted                 0.157                      0.270                       0.487                      0.377
Satd. Flow (perm)               292     1834        0      498     1826       0        889     1863     1521      695     1817       0
Right Turn on Red                                 Yes                       Yes                          Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                          8                        11                                    65                10
Link Speed (mph)                         30                         30                           30                         30
Link Distance (ft)                      777                        459                          200                        317
Travel Time (s)                         17.7                       10.4                         4.5                        7.2
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              14                19       19                14        20                12       12               20
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 2                          1
Peak Hour Factor               0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91      0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91
Adj. Flow (vph)                  32      568       45       81      696       78       186      366       65       29      235       33
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            32      613        0       81      774        0       186      366       65       29      268        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No        No       No      No         No       No      No        No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right       Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                         12                          12                         12
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                           0                          0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                          16                         16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                        Perm              Perm     Perm
Protected Phases                           2                          2                           4                          4
Permitted Phases                  2                          2                           4                 4        4
Detector Phase                    2        2                 2        2                  4        4        4        4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0                4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              46.0      46.0              46.0     46.0               34.0     34.0     34.0     34.0     34.0
Total Split (s)                46.0      46.0     0.0      46.0     46.0     0.0       34.0     34.0     34.0     34.0     34.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              57.5%     57.5%    0.0%     57.5%    57.5%    0.0%      42.5%    42.5%    42.5%    42.5%    42.5%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              41.0      41.0              41.0     41.0               29.0     29.0     29.0     29.0     29.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0                4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0               1.0      1.0                1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0       -2.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0        3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                   3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                 C-Max C-Max                  Max      Max      Max      Max      Max

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                                  Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                  Page 5
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
3: JAMES ST & TOWNSEND ST                                                                                              10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR         NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Walk Time (s)                   7.0      7.0               7.0     7.0                  7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0     7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            13.0     13.0              13.0    13.0                 17.0   17.0   17.0   17.0    17.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5        5                 5       5                    5      5      5      5       5
Act Effct Green (s)            43.0     43.0              43.0    43.0                 31.0   31.0   31.0   31.0    31.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.54     0.54              0.54    0.54                 0.39   0.39   0.39   0.39    0.39
v/c Ratio                      0.20     0.62              0.30    0.78                 0.54   0.51   0.10   0.11    0.38
Control Delay                   4.9      8.1              13.4    18.2                 26.2   21.7    4.9   17.1    18.8
Queue Delay                     0.0      0.0               0.0     0.0                  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0
Total Delay                     4.9      8.1              13.4    18.2                 26.2   21.7    4.9   17.1    18.8
LOS                               A        A                 B       B                    C      C      A      B       B
Approach Delay                           7.9                      17.8                        21.3                  18.7
Approach LOS                               A                         B                           C                     B
Queue Length 50th (ft)           1        50               13      120                  48      93     0      6       61
Queue Length 95th (ft)          m1      m91               m15      126                  93     146    16     18      103
Internal Link Dist (ft)                  697                       379                         120                   237
Turn Bay Length (ft)           150                        150                          105                   150
Base Capacity (vph)            157      989               268      987                 344    722    629    269     710
Starvation Cap Reductn            0        0                 0        0                   0      0      0      0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0        0                 0        0                   0      0      0      0       0
Storage Cap Reductn               0        0                 0        0                   0      0      0      0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.20     0.62              0.30     0.78                0.54   0.51   0.10   0.11    0.38
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 37 (46%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.78
Intersection Signal Delay: 16.1                               Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 83.8%                       ICU Level of Service E
Analysis Period (min) 15
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   3: JAMES ST & TOWNSEND ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                             Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                             Page 6
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
4: JAMES ST & MCBRIDE ST                                                                                                     10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR        NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     59      531      12         17     749      35         16       42      12       16       20      13
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900     1900    1900      1900     1900    1900       1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             150                0        150               0          0                0        0                0
Storage Lanes                     1                0          1               0          0                0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)                25               25         25              25         25               25       25               25
Lane Util. Factor              1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                         1.00               0.98    1.00                        0.99                      0.99
Frt                                    0.997                      0.993                       0.977                     0.965
Flt Protected                 0.950                      0.950                                0.988                     0.984
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      1854        0    1770      1843        0         0    1789        0        0    1759        0
Flt Permitted                 0.194                      0.347                                0.944                     0.919
Satd. Flow (perm)               361     1854        0      636     1843       0          0     1709       0        0    1638        0
Right Turn on Red                                 Yes                       Yes                         Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                          3                          6                          13                        14
Link Speed (mph)                         30                         30                           30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      459                        455                          383                       324
Travel Time (s)                         10.4                       10.3                         8.7                       7.4
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              24                22       22                24         1                4        4                1
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                          5
Peak Hour Factor               0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91      0.91     0.91    0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91
Adj. Flow (vph)                  65      584       13       19      823       38        18       46      13       18       22       14
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            65      597        0       19      861        0         0       77        0       0       54        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No        No       No      No         No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right       Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                         12                           0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                           0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                          16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                           2                          2                           4                         4
Permitted Phases                  2                          2                           4                         4
Detector Phase                    2        2                 2        2                  4        4                4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0                4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              55.0      55.0              55.0     55.0               25.0     25.0             25.0     25.0
Total Split (s)                55.0      55.0     0.0      55.0     55.0     0.0       25.0     25.0     0.0     25.0     25.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              68.8%     68.8%    0.0%     68.8%    68.8%    0.0%      31.3%    31.3%    0.0%    31.3%    31.3%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              50.0      50.0              50.0     50.0               20.0     20.0             20.0     20.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0                4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0               1.0      1.0                1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0       -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0        3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                   3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                 C-Max C-Max                  Max      Max              Max      Max

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                                 Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                 Page 7
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
4: JAMES ST & MCBRIDE ST                                                                                              10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR         NBL    NBT    NBR   SBL     SBT     SBR
Walk Time (s)                   7.0      7.0               7.0     7.0                  7.0    7.0          7.0     7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            10.0     10.0              10.0    10.0                 11.0   11.0         11.0    11.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5        5                 5       5                    5      5            5       5
Act Effct Green (s)            52.0     52.0              52.0    52.0                        22.0                 22.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.65     0.65              0.65    0.65                        0.28                 0.28
v/c Ratio                      0.28     0.50              0.05    0.72                        0.16                 0.12
Control Delay                   4.3      2.9               6.3    10.9                        19.9                 18.1
Queue Delay                     0.0      0.0               0.0     0.0                         0.0                  0.0
Total Delay                     4.3      2.9               6.3    10.9                        19.9                 18.1
LOS                               A        A                 A       B                           B                    B
Approach Delay                           3.0                      10.8                        19.9                 18.1
Approach LOS                               A                         B                           B                    B
Queue Length 50th (ft)           2        16                2       91                          16                   10
Queue Length 95th (ft)          m4        30               m0      187                          39                   28
Internal Link Dist (ft)                  379                       375                         303                  244
Turn Bay Length (ft)           150                        150
Base Capacity (vph)            235     1206               413     1200                        479                  461
Starvation Cap Reductn            0       0                  0       5                           0                    0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0       0                  0       0                           0                    0
Storage Cap Reductn               0       0                  0       0                           0                    0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.28    0.50               0.05    0.72                        0.16                 0.12
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 46 (58%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.72
Intersection Signal Delay: 8.4                                Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 70.0%                       ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   4: JAMES ST & MCBRIDE ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                            Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                            Page 8
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
5: JAMES ST & CATHERINE ST                                                                                                   10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR        NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     14      502      43        126     718      22         47       79      57        2      127      36
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900     1900    1900      1900     1900    1900       1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             150                0        150               0          0                0        0                0
Storage Lanes                     1                0          1               0          0                0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)                25               25         25              25         25               25       25               25
Lane Util. Factor              1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                         0.99               0.98    1.00                        0.97                      0.98
Frt                                    0.988                      0.996                       0.958                     0.971
Flt Protected                 0.950                      0.950                                0.987                     0.999
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      1828        0    1770      1851        0         0    1727        0        0    1780        0
Flt Permitted                 0.235                      0.358                                0.902                     0.997
Satd. Flow (perm)               438     1828        0      653     1851       0          0     1566       0        0    1776        0
Right Turn on Red                                 Yes                       Yes                         Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                        11                           4                          28                        17
Link Speed (mph)                         30                         30                           30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      455                        884                          352                       335
Travel Time (s)                         10.3                       20.1                         8.0                       7.6
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              24                28       28                24        22               19       19                22
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                          2                          2                          2
Peak Hour Factor               0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94      0.94     0.94    0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94
Adj. Flow (vph)                  15      534       46      134      764       23        50       84      61        2      135       38
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            15      580        0      134      787        0         0      195        0       0      175        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No        No       No      No         No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right       Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                         12                           0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                           0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                          16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                           2                          2                           4                         4
Permitted Phases                  2                          2                           4                         4
Detector Phase                    2        2                 2        2                  4        4                4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0                4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              55.0      55.0              55.0     55.0               25.0     25.0             25.0     25.0
Total Split (s)                55.0      55.0     0.0      55.0     55.0     0.0       25.0     25.0     0.0     25.0     25.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              68.8%     68.8%    0.0%     68.8%    68.8%    0.0%      31.3%    31.3%    0.0%    31.3%    31.3%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              50.0      50.0              50.0     50.0               20.0     20.0             20.0     20.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0                4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0               1.0      1.0                1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0       -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0        3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                   3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                 C-Max C-Max                  Max      Max              Max      Max

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                                 Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                 Page 9
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
5: JAMES ST & CATHERINE ST                                                                                            10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR         NBL    NBT    NBR   SBL     SBT     SBR
Walk Time (s)                   7.0      7.0               7.0     7.0                  7.0    7.0          7.0     7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            10.0     10.0              10.0    10.0                 12.0   12.0         12.0    12.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5        5                 5       5                    5      5            5       5
Act Effct Green (s)            52.0     52.0              52.0    52.0                        22.0                 22.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.65     0.65              0.65    0.65                        0.28                 0.28
v/c Ratio                      0.05     0.49              0.32    0.65                        0.43                 0.35
Control Delay                   1.5      2.3               8.0    10.6                        23.9                 23.3
Queue Delay                     0.0      0.0               0.0     0.1                         0.0                  0.0
Total Delay                     1.5      2.3               8.0    10.7                        23.9                 23.3
LOS                               A        A                 A       B                           C                    C
Approach Delay                           2.3                      10.3                        23.9                 23.3
Approach LOS                               A                         B                           C                    C
Queue Length 50th (ft)           0        10               11       63                          46                   43
Queue Length 95th (ft)          m1        17              m30      213                          87                   79
Internal Link Dist (ft)                  375                       804                         272                  255
Turn Bay Length (ft)           150                        150
Base Capacity (vph)            285     1192               424     1205                        451                  501
Starvation Cap Reductn            0       0                  0       0                           0                    0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0       0                  0      26                           0                    0
Storage Cap Reductn               0       0                  0       0                           0                    0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.05    0.49               0.32    0.67                        0.43                 0.35
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 54 (68%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.65
Intersection Signal Delay: 10.4                               Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 87.5%                       ICU Level of Service E
Analysis Period (min) 15
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   5: JAMES ST & CATHERINE ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                            Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                           Page 10
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                                                                        10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR        NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     30      478      53         23     814      64         34      268      53       38      252      18
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900     1900    1900      1900     1900    1900       1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             150                0        150               0          0                0        0                0
Storage Lanes                     1                0          1               0          0                0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)                25               25         25              25         25               25       25               25
Lane Util. Factor              1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00       0.95     0.95    0.95     0.95     0.95    0.95
Ped Bike Factor                1.00     1.00               1.00    1.00                        0.99                      0.99
Frt                                    0.985                      0.989                       0.978                     0.991
Flt Protected                 0.950                      0.950                                0.995                     0.994
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      1830        0    1770      1839        0         0    3408        0        0    3475        0
Flt Permitted                 0.128                      0.354                                0.895                     0.860
Satd. Flow (perm)               238     1830        0      657     1839       0          0     3059       0        0    2997        0
Right Turn on Red                                 Yes                       Yes                         Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                          8                          5                          23                         7
Link Speed (mph)                         30                          30                          30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      884                        1883                        1359                       423
Travel Time (s)                         20.1                       42.8                        30.9                       9.6
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              13                12       12                13        17               22       22               17
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 6                          1                          1
Peak Hour Factor               0.96     0.96     0.96     0.96     0.96     0.96      0.96     0.96    0.96     0.96     0.96     0.96
Adj. Flow (vph)                  31      498       55       24      848       67        35      279      55       40      262       19
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            31      553        0       24      915        0         0      369        0       0      321        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No        No       No      No         No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right       Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                         12                           0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                           0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                          16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                           1                          1                           2                         2
Permitted Phases                  1                          1                           2                         2
Detector Phase                    1        1                 1        1                  2        2                2        2
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0                4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              31.0      31.0              31.0     31.0               21.0     21.0             21.0     21.0
Total Split (s)                31.0      31.0     0.0      31.0     31.0     0.0       21.0     21.0     0.0     21.0     21.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              38.8%     38.8%    0.0%     38.8%    38.8%    0.0%      26.3%    26.3%    0.0%    26.3%    26.3%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              26.0      26.0              26.0     26.0               16.0     16.0             16.0     16.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0                4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0               1.0      1.0                1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0       -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0        3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                      Lead      Lead              Lead     Lead                 Lag      Lag              Lag      Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0      3.0               3.0      3.0                3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                   C-Min    C-Min             C-Min    C-Min               Max      Max              Max      Max

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                                 Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                Page 11
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                                        10/7/2011



Lane Group                       ø3
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
Storage Length (ft)
Storage Lanes
Taper Length (ft)
Lane Util. Factor
Ped Bike Factor
Frt
Flt Protected
Satd. Flow (prot)
Flt Permitted
Satd. Flow (perm)
Right Turn on Red
Satd. Flow (RTOR)
Link Speed (mph)
Link Distance (ft)
Travel Time (s)
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)
Peak Hour Factor
Adj. Flow (vph)
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
Enter Blocked Intersection
Lane Alignment
Median Width(ft)
Link Offset(ft)
Crosswalk Width(ft)
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor
Turn Type
Protected Phases                  3
Permitted Phases
Detector Phase
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0
Minimum Split (s)              28.0
Total Split (s)                28.0
Total Split (%)                35%
Maximum Green (s)              25.0
Yellow Time (s)                 3.0
All-Red Time (s)                0.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)
Total Lost Time (s)
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0
Recall Mode                   None

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                  Page 12
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                                                               10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR         NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Walk Time (s)
Flash Dont Walk (s)
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)
Act Effct Green (s)            51.0     51.0              51.0    51.0                       18.0                18.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.64     0.64              0.64    0.64                       0.22                0.22
v/c Ratio                      0.20     0.47              0.06    0.78                       0.52                0.47
Control Delay                  18.2     14.4              10.2    20.1                       28.6                29.0
Queue Delay                     0.0      0.0               0.0     0.0                        0.0                 0.0
Total Delay                    18.2     14.4              10.2    20.1                       28.6                29.0
LOS                               B        B                 B       C                          C                   C
Approach Delay                          14.6                      19.8                       28.6                29.0
Approach LOS                               B                         B                          C                   C
Queue Length 50th (ft)           4        89                 2     154                         54                  48
Queue Length 95th (ft)         m15      #209                16    #557                         83                  75
Internal Link Dist (ft)                  804                      1803                       1279                343
Turn Bay Length (ft)           150                        150
Base Capacity (vph)            152     1169               419     1174                       706                 680
Starvation Cap Reductn            0       0                  0       0                          0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0       0                  0       0                          0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn               0       0                  0       0                          0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.20    0.47               0.06    0.78                       0.52                0.47
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 47 (59%), Referenced to phase 1:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.78
Intersection Signal Delay: 21.2                               Intersection LOS: C
Intersection Capacity Utilization 83.5%                       ICU Level of Service E
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   6: JAMES ST & LODI ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                          Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                         Page 13
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                                        10/7/2011



Lane Group                      ø3
Walk Time (s)                   7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            15.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5
Act Effct Green (s)
Actuated g/C Ratio
v/c Ratio
Control Delay
Queue Delay
Total Delay
LOS
Approach Delay
Approach LOS
Queue Length 50th (ft)
Queue Length 95th (ft)
Internal Link Dist (ft)
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
Starvation Cap Reductn
Spillback Cap Reductn
Storage Cap Reductn
Reduced v/c Ratio
Intersection Summary




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                  Page 14
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
7: JAMES ST & OAK ST                                                                                                         10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR        NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     78      424      67         47     750      31        110      173      98       28       88      41
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900     1900    1900      1900     1900    1900       1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             150                0        150               0          0                0        0                0
Storage Lanes                     1                0          1               0          0                0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)                25               25         25              25         25               25       25               25
Lane Util. Factor              1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                         0.99               0.98    1.00                        0.98                      0.98
Frt                                    0.980                      0.994                       0.965                     0.965
Flt Protected                 0.950                      0.950                                0.986                     0.991
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      1805        0    1770      1847        0         0    1753        0        0    1754        0
Flt Permitted                 0.173                      0.376                                0.862                     0.899
Satd. Flow (perm)               322     1805        0      685     1847       0          0     1520       0        0    1588        0
Right Turn on Red                                 Yes                       Yes                         Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                         20                          5                         29                        30
Link Speed (mph)                          30                         30                         30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      1883                       1028                        495                       602
Travel Time (s)                         42.8                       23.4                        11.3                      13.7
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              19                31       31                19        24               14       14                24
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 2                          1                          1                          1
Peak Hour Factor               0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94      0.94     0.94    0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94
Adj. Flow (vph)                  83      451       71       50      798       33       117      184     104       30       94       44
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            83      522        0       50      831        0         0      405        0       0      168        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No        No       No      No         No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right       Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                         12                           0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                           0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                          16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                           2                          2                           4                         4
Permitted Phases                  2                          2                           4                         4
Detector Phase                    2        2                 2        2                  4        4                4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0                4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              40.0      40.0              40.0     40.0               25.0     25.0             25.0     25.0
Total Split (s)                40.0      40.0     0.0      40.0     40.0     0.0       25.0     25.0     0.0     25.0     25.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              61.5%     61.5%    0.0%     61.5%    61.5%    0.0%      38.5%    38.5%    0.0%    38.5%    38.5%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              35.0      35.0              35.0     35.0               20.0     20.0             20.0     20.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0                4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0               1.0      1.0                1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0       -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0        3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                   3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                 C-Max C-Max                 None     None             None     None

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                                 Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                Page 15
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
7: JAMES ST & OAK ST                                                                                                 10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR   SBL     SBT     SBR
Walk Time (s)                   7.0      7.0               7.0     7.0                 7.0    7.0          7.0     7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)             9.0      9.0               9.0     9.0                13.0   13.0         13.0    13.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5        5                 5       5                   5      5            5       5
Act Effct Green (s)            38.6    38.6               38.6    38.6                       20.4                 20.4
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.59    0.59               0.59    0.59                       0.31                 0.31
v/c Ratio                      0.43    0.48               0.12    0.76                       0.81                 0.32
Control Delay                  17.3      9.6               4.8     7.8                       33.6                 15.2
Queue Delay                     0.0      0.0               0.0     0.0                        0.0                  0.0
Total Delay                    17.3      9.6               4.8     7.8                       33.6                 15.2
LOS                               B        A                 A       A                          C                    B
Approach Delay                         10.6                        7.6                       33.6                 15.2
Approach LOS                               B                         A                          C                    B
Queue Length 50th (ft)           12      73                 3       46                         88                   26
Queue Length 95th (ft)           40     121                m4     m67                        #179                   56
Internal Link Dist (ft)                1803                        948                        415                  522
Turn Bay Length (ft)           150                        150
Base Capacity (vph)            191     1079               406     1098                       534                  557
Starvation Cap Reductn            0       0                  0       0                          0                    0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0       0                  0       0                          0                    0
Storage Cap Reductn               0       0                  0       0                          0                    0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.43    0.48               0.12    0.76                       0.76                 0.30
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 65
Actuated Cycle Length: 65
Offset: 2 (3%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 65
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.81
Intersection Signal Delay: 14.2                              Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 90.7%                      ICU Level of Service E
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   7: JAMES ST & OAK ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                           Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                          Page 16
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
8: JAMES ST & DEWITT ST                                                                                                      10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR        NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     30      509      11         0      768     120          7        1       2      179        6      53
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900     1900    1900      1900     1900    1900       1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             150                0       150                0          0                0        0                0
Storage Lanes                     1                0         1                0          0                0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)                25               25        25               25         25               25       25               25
Lane Util. Factor              1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                         1.00                       0.99                        0.98                      0.95
Frt                                    0.997                      0.980                       0.975                     0.970
Flt Protected                 0.950                                                           0.965                     0.964
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      1855        0     1863     1809        0         0    1727        0        0    1729        0
Flt Permitted                 0.110                                                           0.823                     0.773
Satd. Flow (perm)               205     1855        0     1863     1809       0          0    1465        0        0    1325        0
Right Turn on Red                                 Yes                       Yes                         Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                          3                         20                           2                       24
Link Speed (mph)                          30                         30                          30                       30
Link Distance (ft)                      1028                        271                         427                      658
Travel Time (s)                         23.4                        6.2                         9.7                      15.0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              22                16       16                22         8               37       37                8
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                          2
Peak Hour Factor               0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90      0.90     0.90    0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90
Adj. Flow (vph)                  33      566       12        0      853      133         8        1       2      199        7       59
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            33      578        0        0      986        0         0       11        0       0      265        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No        No       No      No         No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right       Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                         12                           0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                           0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                          16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                           2                          2                           4                         4
Permitted Phases                  2                          2                           4                         4
Detector Phase                    2        2                 2        2                  4        4                4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0                4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              40.0      40.0              40.0     40.0               25.0     25.0             25.0     25.0
Total Split (s)                40.0      40.0     0.0      40.0     40.0     0.0       25.0     25.0     0.0     25.0     25.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              61.5%     61.5%    0.0%     61.5%    61.5%    0.0%      38.5%    38.5%    0.0%    38.5%    38.5%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              35.0      35.0              35.0     35.0               20.0     20.0             20.0     20.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0                4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0               1.0      1.0                1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0       -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0        3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                   3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                 C-Max C-Max                 None     None             None     None

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                                 Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                Page 17
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
8: JAMES ST & DEWITT ST                                                                                               10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR         NBL    NBT    NBR   SBL     SBT     SBR
Walk Time (s)                   7.0      7.0               7.0     7.0                  7.0    7.0          7.0     7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)             9.0      9.0               9.0     9.0                 13.0   13.0         13.0    13.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5        5                 5       5                    5      5            5       5
Act Effct Green (s)            40.9     40.9                      40.9                        18.1                 18.1
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.63     0.63                      0.63                        0.28                 0.28
v/c Ratio                      0.26     0.50                      0.86                        0.03                 0.68
Control Delay                  18.0     14.1                      15.7                        13.7                 27.9
Queue Delay                     0.0      0.0                       1.3                         0.0                  0.0
Total Delay                    18.0     14.1                      17.0                        13.7                 27.9
LOS                               B        B                         B                           B                    C
Approach Delay                          14.3                      17.0                        13.7                 27.9
Approach LOS                               B                         B                           B                    C
Queue Length 50th (ft)           6       119                       252                           2                   56
Queue Length 95th (ft)         m15     m185                       #417                           8                  100
Internal Link Dist (ft)                  948                       191                         347                  578
Turn Bay Length (ft)           150
Base Capacity (vph)            129     1167                       1144                        497                  464
Starvation Cap Reductn            0       0                         50                           0                    0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0       0                          0                           0                    0
Storage Cap Reductn               0       0                          0                           0                    0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.26    0.50                       0.90                        0.02                 0.57
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 65
Actuated Cycle Length: 65
Offset: 50 (77%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 70
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.86
Intersection Signal Delay: 17.7                               Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 70.8%                       ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   8: JAMES ST & DEWITT ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                            Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                           Page 18
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
9: JAMES ST & SEDGEWICK ST                                                                   10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      NBL      NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    574      116        42     769      119      34
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900    1900      1900     1900    1900     1900
Storage Length (ft)                      150      150                 0       0
Storage Lanes                              1         1                1       0
Taper Length (ft)                         25        25               25      25
Lane Util. Factor              1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                         0.93      0.99             0.99
Frt                                    0.850                      0.970
Flt Protected                                   0.950             0.962
Satd. Flow (prot)              1863     1583    1770      1863    1729         0
Flt Permitted                                   0.305             0.962
Satd. Flow (perm)              1863     1480      561     1863    1719        0
Right Turn on Red                        Yes                                Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                        127                         23
Link Speed (mph)                 30                         30       30
Link Distance (ft)              271                       1437      521
Travel Time (s)                 6.2                       32.7     11.8
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                       22       22                 4        2
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                        2                                   1
Peak Hour Factor               0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91
Adj. Flow (vph)                631      127        46      845      131       37
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)           631     127        46      845      168       0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No      No        No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left   Right      Left     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                 12                         12       12
Link Offset(ft)                   0                          0        0
Crosswalk Width(ft)              16                         16       16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                              Perm     Perm
Protected Phases                  2                          2        4
Permitted Phases                           2        2
Detector Phase                    2        2        2        2        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0       4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              42.0      42.0     42.0     42.0     23.0
Total Split (s)                42.0      42.0     42.0     42.0     23.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              64.6%     64.6%    64.6%    64.6%    35.4%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              37.0      37.0     37.0     37.0     18.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       4.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0               3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max C-Max C-Max               Max

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                  Page 19
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
9: JAMES ST & SEDGEWICK ST                                                                     10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT       NBL      NBR
Walk Time (s)                   7.0      7.0      7.0     7.0       7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)             9.0      9.0      9.0     9.0      11.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5        5        5       5         5
Act Effct Green (s)            39.0     38.0     39.0    39.0      20.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.60     0.58     0.60    0.60      0.31
v/c Ratio                      0.56     0.14     0.14    0.76      0.31
Control Delay                   6.0      0.8      8.6    18.5      16.6
Queue Delay                     0.2      0.0      0.0     4.8       0.0
Total Delay                     6.3      0.8      8.6    23.3      16.6
LOS                               A        A        A       C         B
Approach Delay                  5.4                      22.6      16.6
Approach LOS                      A                         C         B
Queue Length 50th (ft)           52       1        7      205        29
Queue Length 95th (ft)           75      m1      m10      331        59
Internal Link Dist (ft)        191                       1357       441
Turn Bay Length (ft)                     150      150
Base Capacity (vph)            1118      918      337    1118       548
Starvation Cap Reductn           97        0        0       0         0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0        0        0     206         2
Storage Cap Reductn               0        0        0       0         0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.62     0.14     0.14    0.93      0.31
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 65
Actuated Cycle Length: 65
Offset: 42 (65%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 65
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.76
Intersection Signal Delay: 14.8                               Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 62.1%                       ICU Level of Service B
Analysis Period (min) 15
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   9: JAMES ST & SEDGEWICK ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis     Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                    Page 20
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
10: JAMES ST & WILSON ST                                                                     10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      NBL      NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    596      12         16     789       22      29
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900    1900      1900     1900    1900     1900
Storage Length (ft)                       0        150                0       0
Storage Lanes                             0          1                1       0
Taper Length (ft)                        25         25               25      25
Lane Util. Factor              1.00    1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                1.00               1.00             0.97
Frt                           0.997                               0.923
Flt Protected                                   0.950             0.979
Satd. Flow (prot)              1856        0    1770      1863    1629         0
Flt Permitted                                   0.336             0.979
Satd. Flow (perm)              1856        0      624     1863    1629        0
Right Turn on Red                        Yes                                Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                 3                                  35
Link Speed (mph)                 30                         30       30
Link Distance (ft)             1437                       1093      701
Travel Time (s)                32.7                       24.8     15.9
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                        7        7                         22
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                        1                                   1
Peak Hour Factor               0.84     0.84     0.84     0.84     0.84     0.84
Adj. Flow (vph)                710        14       19      939       26       35
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)           724       0        19      939       61        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No      No        No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left   Right      Left     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                 12                         12       12
Link Offset(ft)                   0                          0        0
Crosswalk Width(ft)              16                         16       16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                                       Perm
Protected Phases                  2                          2        4
Permitted Phases                                    2
Detector Phase                    2                 2        2        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0                4.0      4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              40.0               40.0     40.0     25.0
Total Split (s)                40.0      0.0      40.0     40.0     25.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              61.5%     0.0%     61.5%    61.5%    38.5%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              35.0               35.0     35.0     20.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0                4.0      4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0                1.0      1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0                3.0   3.0        3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max              C-Max C-Max       None

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                  Page 21
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
10: JAMES ST & WILSON ST                                                                       10/7/2011



Lane Group                      EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT       NBL      NBR
Walk Time (s)                    7.0              7.0     7.0       7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)             10.0             10.0    10.0      13.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)            5                5       5         5
Act Effct Green (s)            53.4              53.4    53.4      11.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.82              0.82    0.82      0.17
v/c Ratio                      0.48              0.04    0.61      0.20
Control Delay                    7.9              4.4     8.8      12.6
Queue Delay                      0.0              0.0     0.0       0.0
Total Delay                      7.9              4.4     8.8      12.6
LOS                                A                A       A         B
Approach Delay                   7.9                      8.7      12.6
Approach LOS                       A                        A         B
Queue Length 50th (ft)           96                 1      76         6
Queue Length 95th (ft)          155                 7    #331        18
Internal Link Dist (ft)        1357                      1013       621
Turn Bay Length (ft)                             150
Base Capacity (vph)            1524              512     1529       575
Starvation Cap Reductn            0                 0       0         0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0                 0       0         0
Storage Cap Reductn               0                 0       0         0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.48              0.04    0.61      0.11
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 65
Actuated Cycle Length: 65
Offset: 54 (83%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 65
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.61
Intersection Signal Delay: 8.5                                Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 58.9%                       ICU Level of Service B
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

Splits and Phases:   10: JAMES ST & WILSON ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis     Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                    Page 22
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
11: JAMES ST & TEALL AVE                                                                                                     10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR       NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    102      432      91         82     442       12       170      354      92        7      446     193
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900     1900    1900      1900     1900     1900      1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             160                0        125                0         0                0        0                0
Storage Lanes                     1                0          1                0         0                0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)                25               25         25               25        25               25       25               25
Lane Util. Factor              1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00      0.95     0.95    0.95     0.95     0.95    0.95
Ped Bike Factor                0.99     0.99               0.98    1.00                        0.99                      0.96
Frt                                    0.974                      0.996                       0.978                     0.955
Flt Protected                 0.950                      0.950                                0.986                     0.999
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      1798        0    1770      1854        0         0    3388        0        0    3239        0
Flt Permitted                 0.950                      0.950                                0.558                     0.947
Satd. Flow (perm)             1748      1798        0    1738      1854        0         0    1918        0        0    3070        0
Right Turn on Red                                 Yes                        Yes                        Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                          8                          1                          17                        40
Link Speed (mph)                          30                         30                          30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      1093                       2248                         180                       188
Travel Time (s)                         24.8                       51.1                         4.1                       4.3
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              10                16       16                10        29                7        7               29
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                          1
Peak Hour Factor               0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90      0.90    0.90      0.90     0.90    0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90
Adj. Flow (vph)                113      480      101        91       491      13       189      393     102        8      496      214
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)           113      581       0        91      504         0        0      684        0       0      718        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No        No       No       No        No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right      Left     Left    Right      Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                         12                           0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                           0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                          16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                      Prot                       Prot                       pm+pt                     Perm
Protected Phases                  1        6                 5         2                 7        4                         8
Permitted Phases                                                                         4                         8
Detector Phase                    1        6                 5         2                 7        4                8        8
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             5.0       5.0               5.0       5.0               5.0      5.0              5.0      5.0
Minimum Split (s)               9.5      22.0               9.5     22.0               10.0     22.0             22.0     22.0
Total Split (s)                35.0      48.0     0.0      35.0     48.0      0.0      30.0     57.0     0.0     27.0     27.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              25.0%     34.3%    0.0%     25.0%    34.3%     0.0%     21.4%    40.7%    0.0%    19.3%    19.3%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              30.5      43.0              30.5     43.0               25.0     52.0             22.0     22.0
Yellow Time (s)                 3.5       4.0               3.5       4.0               4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0               1.0       1.0               1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0      -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             2.5       3.0      3.0      2.5      3.0      3.0       3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                      Lead        Lag             Lead       Lag              Lead                        Lag      Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0       3.0               3.0      3.0                3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                   None       Min             None       Min              None     None             None     None

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                                 Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                Page 23
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
11: JAMES ST & TEALL AVE                                                                                                 10/7/2011



Lane Group                      EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL     NBT    NBR   SBL     SBT     SBR
Walk Time (s)                             7.0                       7.0                           7.0          7.0     7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)                     10.0                       10.0                          10.0         10.0    10.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)                     5                         5                             5            5       5
Act Effct Green (s)             14.8    45.4               13.4    44.0                          44.2                 44.2
Actuated g/C Ratio              0.13    0.41               0.12    0.39                          0.40                 0.40
v/c Ratio                       0.48    0.79               0.43    0.69                        0.97dl                 0.58
Control Delay                   54.3    40.0               54.7    36.5                          45.8                 27.0
Queue Delay                      0.0      0.0               0.0     0.0                           0.0                  0.0
Total Delay                     54.3    40.0               54.7    36.5                          45.8                 27.0
LOS                                D       D                  D       D                             D                    C
Approach Delay                          42.3                       39.3                          45.8                 27.0
Approach LOS                               D                          D                             D                    C
Queue Length 50th (ft)           52      248                 42     208                          156                   133
Queue Length 95th (ft)           99     #441                 84     346                         #236                   190
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 1013                       2168                          100                   108
Turn Bay Length (ft)            160                        125
Base Capacity (vph)             524      752               524      760                         951                  1239
Starvation Cap Reductn             0        0                 0        0                           0                    0
Spillback Cap Reductn              0        0                 0        0                           0                    0
Storage Cap Reductn                0        0                 0        0                           0                    0
Reduced v/c Ratio               0.22     0.77              0.17     0.66                        0.72                 0.58
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 140
Actuated Cycle Length: 111.7
Natural Cycle: 70
Control Type: Actuated-Uncoordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.89
Intersection Signal Delay: 38.4                                 Intersection LOS: D
Intersection Capacity Utilization 83.7%                         ICU Level of Service E
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
dl Defacto Left Lane. Recode with 1 though lane as a left lane.

Splits and Phases:   11: JAMES ST & TEALL AVE




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                               Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                              Page 24
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                                                                         10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR        NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                      0      501       30       10      422       0         44        0      73      238       43      70
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900     1900    1900      1900     1900    1900       1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)               0               150        0                0          0                0        0                0
Storage Lanes                     0                 1        0                0          0                0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)                25                25       25               25         25               25       25               25
Lane Util. Factor              1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                                  0.97              1.00                        0.99                      0.99
Frt                                             0.850                                         0.916                     0.973
Flt Protected                                                     0.999                       0.982                     0.967
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0     1863     1583        0    1861         0         0    1651        0        0    1730        0
Flt Permitted                                                     0.985                       0.847                     0.672
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0     1863     1533        0    1835        0          0    1424        0        0    1201        0
Right Turn on Red                                 Yes                       Yes                         Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                                  37                                            73                        11
Link Speed (mph)                          30                         30                          30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      2248                        208                         239                       142
Travel Time (s)                         51.1                        4.7                         5.4                       3.2
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              28                13       13                28        14                1        1                14
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 4                                                                                1
Peak Hour Factor               0.81     0.81     0.81     0.81     0.81     0.81      0.81     0.81    0.81     0.81     0.81     0.81
Adj. Flow (vph)                   0      619       37       12      521        0        54        0      90      294       53       86
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)             0      619       37        0      533        0         0      144        0       0      433        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No        No       No      No         No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right       Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                         12                           0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                           0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                          16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turning Speed (mph)              15                 9       15                 9        15                9       15                 9
Turn Type                                       Perm     Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                        124                        124                            3                         3
Permitted Phases                                 124      124                            3                         3
Detector Phase                          124      124      124      124                   3        3                3        3
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)                                                                     8.0      8.0              8.0      8.0
Minimum Split (s)                                                                      22.0     22.0             22.0     22.0
Total Split (s)                 0.0      78.0     78.0     78.0     78.0     0.0       30.0     30.0     0.0     30.0     30.0     0.0
Total Split (%)               0.0%     72.2%    72.2%    72.2%    72.2%    0.0%      27.8%    27.8%    0.0%    27.8%    27.8%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)                                                                      25.5     25.5             25.5     25.5
Yellow Time (s)                                                                         3.5      3.5              3.5      3.5
All-Red Time (s)                                                                        1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)            0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Total Lost Time (s)             4.0      4.5      4.5      4.5      4.5      4.0        4.5      4.5     4.0      4.5      4.5     4.0
Lead/Lag                                                                              Lead     Lead             Lead     Lead
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)                                                                  3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                                 Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                Page 25
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                                         10/7/2011



Lane Group                       ø1       ø2       ø4
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
Storage Length (ft)
Storage Lanes
Taper Length (ft)
Lane Util. Factor
Ped Bike Factor
Frt
Flt Protected
Satd. Flow (prot)
Flt Permitted
Satd. Flow (perm)
Right Turn on Red
Satd. Flow (RTOR)
Link Speed (mph)
Link Distance (ft)
Travel Time (s)
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)
Peak Hour Factor
Adj. Flow (vph)
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
Enter Blocked Intersection
Lane Alignment
Median Width(ft)
Link Offset(ft)
Crosswalk Width(ft)
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor
Turning Speed (mph)
Turn Type
Protected Phases                  1        2        4
Permitted Phases
Detector Phase
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             5.0     10.0      5.0
Minimum Split (s)               9.5     22.0      9.5
Total Split (s)                13.0     40.0     25.0
Total Split (%)                12%      37%      23%
Maximum Green (s)               8.5     35.5     20.5
Yellow Time (s)                 3.5      3.5      3.5
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)
Total Lost Time (s)
Lead/Lag                       Lead      Lag      Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0      3.0      3.0

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                  Page 26
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                                                                    10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR        NBL     NBT    NBR    SBL      SBT    SBR
Recall Mode                                                                          None    None          None    None
Walk Time (s)                                                                          7.0     7.0           7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)                                                                   10.0    10.0          10.0    10.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)                                                                  5       5             5        5
Act Effct Green (s)                    73.2      73.2              73.2                       25.5                  25.5
Actuated g/C Ratio                     0.68      0.68              0.68                       0.24                  0.24
v/c Ratio                              0.49      0.04              0.43                       0.37                  1.48
Control Delay                           9.9       1.9               5.1                       20.5                 264.3
Queue Delay                             0.9       0.0               1.4                        0.1                 393.5
Total Delay                            10.8       1.9               6.5                       20.6                 657.7
LOS                                       B         A                 A                          C                      F
Approach Delay                         10.3                         6.5                       20.6                 657.7
Approach LOS                              B                           A                          C                      F
Queue Length 50th (ft)                  125         0                12                         27                 ~280
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  149         6                40                         55                  #359
Internal Link Dist (ft)                2168                        128                         159                     62
Turn Bay Length (ft)                             150
Base Capacity (vph)                    1256     1045              1237                       393                    293
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0        0               481                          0                   109
Spillback Cap Reductn                   359        0                  0                        14                      2
Storage Cap Reductn                       0        0                  0                         0                      0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.69     0.04               0.71                      0.38                   2.35
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 108
Actuated Cycle Length: 107.7
Natural Cycle: 65
Control Type: Actuated-Uncoordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 1.48
Intersection Signal Delay: 168.7                            Intersection LOS: F
Intersection Capacity Utilization 64.4%                     ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15
~ Volume exceeds capacity, queue is theoretically infinite.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

Splits and Phases:   12: JAMES ST & Grant




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                             Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                            Page 27
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                                         10/7/2011



Lane Group                      ø1        ø2      ø4
Recall Mode                   None       Min    None
Walk Time (s)                            7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)                     10.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)                    5
Act Effct Green (s)
Actuated g/C Ratio
v/c Ratio
Control Delay
Queue Delay
Total Delay
LOS
Approach Delay
Approach LOS
Queue Length 50th (ft)
Queue Length 95th (ft)
Internal Link Dist (ft)
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
Starvation Cap Reductn
Spillback Cap Reductn
Storage Cap Reductn
Reduced v/c Ratio
Intersection Summary




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                  Page 28
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
13: James S & Walgreens                                                                                                  10/7/2011



Lane Group                    EBL2      EBL      EBT      WBT      WBR       SBL     SBR     SEL     SER       ø3
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     60      102      650      422      258        6       10       0       0
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900     1900     1900     1900    1900     1900      1900    1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)                       75                        150        0        0       0       0
Storage Lanes                              1                          1        1        0       0       0
Taper Length (ft)                         25                         25       25       25      25      25
Lane Util. Factor              1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                                                    0.89     0.97
Frt                                                               0.850    0.915
Flt Protected                          0.950                               0.982
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0    1770      1863     1863     1583    1674         0       0       0
Flt Permitted                          0.292                               0.982
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0      544     1863     1863     1414    1628         0       0       0
Right Turn on Red                                                                                     Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)
Link Speed (mph)                                   30      30                  30              30
Link Distance (ft)                                208     618                 139             186
Travel Time (s)                                   4.7     14.0                3.2             4.2
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              28                                  28        28
Peak Hour Factor               0.81     0.81     0.81     0.81     0.81      0.81    0.81    0.81    0.81
Adj. Flow (vph)                  74      126      802      521      319         7      12       0       0
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)             0      200      802      521     319        19        0       0       0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No       No       No      No        No       No      No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left     Left     Left   Right      Left    Right    Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                                   12       12                12                0
Link Offset(ft)                                     0        0                 0                0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                                16       16                16               16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00   1.00       1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Turning Speed (mph)               15     15                           9        15       9      15       9
Turn Type                    custom custom                        Perm
Protected Phases                          1      123         2                  4                               3
Permitted Phases                 23     23                            2
Detector Phase                   23       1      123         2        2         4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)                       5.0              10.0     10.0       5.0                            8.0
Minimum Split (s)                         9.5              22.0     22.0       9.5                           22.0
Total Split (s)                70.0      13.0     83.0     40.0     40.0     25.0      0.0     0.0     0.0   30.0
Total Split (%)              64.8%     12.0%    76.9%    37.0%    37.0%    23.1%     0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    28%
Maximum Green (s)                         8.5              35.5     35.5     20.5                            25.5
Yellow Time (s)                           3.5               3.5      3.5      3.5                             3.5
All-Red Time (s)                          1.0               1.0      1.0      1.0                             1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)            0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
Total Lost Time (s)             4.5       4.5     4.5       4.5      4.5      4.5      4.0    4.0      4.0
Lead/Lag                                Lead                Lag      Lag      Lag                            Lead
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)                    3.0               3.0      3.0      3.0                               3.0
Recall Mode                            None                Min      Min     None                             None

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                               Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                              Page 29
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
13: James S & Walgreens                                                                                            10/7/2011



Lane Group                    EBL2      EBL      EBT     WBT      WBR       SBL       SBR   SEL   SER    ø3
Walk Time (s)                                              7.0     7.0                                   7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)                                      10.0     10.0                                  10.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)                                      5       5                                     5
Act Effct Green (s)                     74.0     78.5    35.5     35.5      20.2
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.69     0.73    0.33     0.33      0.19
v/c Ratio                               0.43     0.59    0.85     0.68      0.06
Control Delay                            7.8     11.1    48.3     40.2      36.6
Queue Delay                              0.3      1.6     0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Delay                              8.0     12.7    48.3     40.2      36.6
LOS                                        A        B       D        D         D
Approach Delay                                   11.8    45.2               36.6
Approach LOS                                        B       D                  D
Queue Length 50th (ft)                   38       199     227       129        7
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  m37     m186      277       173       19
Internal Link Dist (ft)                           128     538                 59            106
Turn Bay Length (ft)                      75                        150
Base Capacity (vph)                     470     1358       614      466      319
Starvation Cap Reductn                    44     362         0        0        0
Spillback Cap Reductn                      0       0         0        0        0
Storage Cap Reductn                        0       0         0        0        0
Reduced v/c Ratio                       0.47    0.81      0.85     0.68     0.06
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 108
Actuated Cycle Length: 107.7
Natural Cycle: 65
Control Type: Actuated-Uncoordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 1.48
Intersection Signal Delay: 27.1                              Intersection LOS: C
Intersection Capacity Utilization 46.6%                      ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   13: James S & Walgreens




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                         Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                        Page 30
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
1: JAMES ST & OSWEGO BLVD                                                                                                    10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR        NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                      0      543      121       34      596       1        329        0      20        5        7      11
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900     1900    1900      1900     1900    1900       1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             150               150      150                0          0                0        0                0
Storage Lanes                     1                 1        1                0          1                0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)                25                25       25               25         25               25       25               25
Lane Util. Factor              1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00       0.95     0.95    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                                  0.94              1.00                        0.99                      0.98
Frt                                             0.850                                         0.983                     0.932
Flt Protected                                            0.950                       0.950    0.958                     0.990
Satd. Flow (prot)              1863     1863     1583    1770      1863        0     1681     1657        0        0    1697        0
Flt Permitted                                            0.142                       0.210    0.276                     0.875
Satd. Flow (perm)              1863     1863     1495      265     1863       0        372      477       0        0    1493        0
Right Turn on Red                                 Yes                       Yes                         Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                                 125                                            11                        12
Link Speed (mph)                          30                        30                           30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                       225                       537                          242                       134
Travel Time (s)                          5.1                       12.2                         5.5                       3.0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)               7                35       35                 7         4               13       13                 4
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 5                          6                                                     1
Peak Hour Factor               0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95      0.95     0.95    0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95
Adj. Flow (vph)                   0      572      127       36      627        1       346        0      21        5        7       12
Shared Lane Traffic (%)                                                               47%
Lane Group Flow (vph)             0      572     127        36      628        0       183      184        0       0       24        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No        No       No      No         No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right       Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                         12                          12                        12
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                           0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                          16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turning Speed (mph)              15                 9       15                 9        15                9       15                 9
Turn Type                     Perm              Perm     Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                           1                          1                           2                         3
Permitted Phases                  1                 1        1                           2                         3
Detector Phase                    1        1        1        1        1                  2        2                3        3
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0       4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0                4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              27.0      27.0     27.0     27.0     27.0               35.0     35.0             12.0     12.0
Total Split (s)                27.0      27.0     27.0     27.0     27.0     0.0       47.0     47.0     0.0     12.0     12.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              31.4%     31.4%    31.4%    31.4%    31.4%    0.0%      54.7%    54.7%    0.0%    14.0%    14.0%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              22.0      22.0     22.0     22.0     22.0               42.0     42.0              7.0      7.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0                4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0                1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0       -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      4.0      3.0      3.0     3.0        3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                      Lead      Lead     Lead     Lead     Lead                 Lag      Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0                3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                                 Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                 Page 1
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
1: JAMES ST & OSWEGO BLVD                                                                                              10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL   EBT   EBR   WBL  WBT                  WBR         NBL    NBT     NBR    SBL    SBT     SBR
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max C-Max C-Max C-Max                             Max     Max          None   None
Walk Time (s)                   7.0   7.0   7.0   7.0   7.0                             7.0     7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            15.0  15.0  15.0  15.0  15.0                            12.0   12.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5     5      5    5     5                               5       5
Act Effct Green (s)                  31.2  30.2  31.2  31.2                            44.0   44.0                   8.2
Actuated g/C Ratio                   0.36  0.35  0.36  0.36                            0.51   0.51                  0.10
v/c Ratio                            0.85  0.21  0.38  0.93                            0.96   0.74                  0.16
Control Delay                        41.7    6.0 38.9  51.4                            81.9   36.7                  26.5
Queue Delay                           0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0                             0.0     0.0                  0.0
Total Delay                          41.7    6.0 38.9  51.4                            81.9   36.7                  26.5
LOS                                     D      A    D     D                               F      D                     C
Approach Delay                       35.2              50.8                                   59.2                  26.5
Approach LOS                            D                 D                                       E                    C
Queue Length 50th (ft)               172       0    9   197                              64     49                     4
Queue Length 95th (ft)              #375      28  #41 #423                             #162   #137                    20
Internal Link Dist (ft)              145                457                                    162                    54
Turn Bay Length (ft)                        150   150
Base Capacity (vph)                  676    606    96   676                            190    249                   167
Starvation Cap Reductn                  0      0    0     0                               0      0                     0
Spillback Cap Reductn                   0      0    0     0                               0      0                     0
Storage Cap Reductn                     0      0    0     0                               0      0                     0
Reduced v/c Ratio                    0.85  0.21  0.38  0.93                            0.96   0.74                  0.14
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 86
Actuated Cycle Length: 86
Offset: 32 (37%), Referenced to phase 1:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 75
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.96
Intersection Signal Delay: 46.0                               Intersection LOS: D
Intersection Capacity Utilization 54.6%                       ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

Splits and Phases:   1: JAMES ST & OSWEGO BLVD




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                             Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                             Page 2
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
2: JAMES ST & STATE ST                                                                                                       10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR       NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     62      490      16        97      568      349         38     972     124      119      211      25
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900     1900    1900      1900     1900    1900       1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             150                0       150               150       120                0      120                0
Storage Lanes                     1                0         1                 1          1               0        1                0
Taper Length (ft)                25               25        25                25         25              25       25               25
Lane Util. Factor              1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     0.95    0.95     1.00     0.95    0.95
Ped Bike Factor                0.99     1.00                                0.98       0.98    0.99                      0.99
Frt                                    0.995                               0.850              0.983                     0.984
Flt Protected                 0.950                      0.950                       0.950                     0.950
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      1849        0    1770      1863     1583     1770      3445       0    1770      3463       0
Flt Permitted                 0.249                      0.143                       0.592                     0.121
Satd. Flow (perm)               461     1849        0      266     1863     1547     1076      3445       0      225     3463       0
Right Turn on Red                                 Yes                        Yes                        Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                          2                                 228                 18                        21
Link Speed (mph)                         30                         30                           30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      537                        777                          389                       292
Travel Time (s)                         12.2                       17.7                         8.8                       6.6
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              13                46       46                13        14               46       46               14
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                          4                          4
Peak Hour Factor               0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91      0.91     0.91    0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91
Adj. Flow (vph)                  68      538       18      107      624      384        42     1068     136      131      232       27
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            68      556        0      107      624     384         42     1204        0     131      259        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No        No       No      No         No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right       Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                         12                          12                        12
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                           0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                          16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       pm+pt             Perm      Perm                      pm+pt
Protected Phases                           2                 1        6                           4                3        8
Permitted Phases                  2                          6                 6         4                         8
Detector Phase                    2        2                 1        6        6         4        4                3        8
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0      4.0       4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              24.0      24.0              12.0     38.0     38.0      33.0     33.0             12.0     45.0
Total Split (s)                28.0      28.0     0.0      12.0     40.0     40.0      33.0     33.0     0.0     12.0     45.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              32.9%     32.9%    0.0%     14.1%    47.1%    47.1%     38.8%    38.8%    0.0%    14.1%    52.9%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              23.0      23.0               7.0     35.0     35.0      28.0     28.0              7.0     40.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0      4.0       4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0               1.0      1.0      1.0       1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0      -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                       Lag       Lag              Lead                          Lag      Lag            Lead
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                  3.0   3.0   3.0             3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                  Max C-Max C-Max             Max      Max              Max      Max

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                                 Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                 Page 3
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
2: JAMES ST & STATE ST                                                                                               10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR   SBL     SBT     SBR
Walk Time (s)                   7.0      7.0                                                                       7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            10.0     10.0                                                                      10.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5        5                                                                         5
Act Effct Green (s)            25.0     25.0              37.0     37.0     37.0      30.0   30.0         42.0    42.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.29     0.29              0.44     0.44     0.44      0.35   0.35         0.49    0.49
v/c Ratio                      0.50     1.02              0.39     0.77     0.48      0.11   0.98         0.48    0.15
Control Delay                  39.9     75.6              17.8     27.5     10.8      19.6   49.6         17.8    11.0
Queue Delay                     0.0      0.0               0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0    0.0          0.0     0.0
Total Delay                    39.9     75.6              17.8     27.5     10.8      19.6   49.6         17.8    11.0
LOS                               D        E                 B        C        B         B      D            B       B
Approach Delay                          71.7                       20.8                      48.6                 13.3
Approach LOS                               E                          C                         D                    B
Queue Length 50th (ft)           20    ~208                27       205      64        10     221          25       23
Queue Length 95th (ft)          #55    #351               m32     m258      m84        26    #323          47       37
Internal Link Dist (ft)                  457                        697                       309                  212
Turn Bay Length (ft)           150                        150                150       120                120
Base Capacity (vph)            136      545               275      811      802       380    1228         275    1722
Starvation Cap Reductn            0        0                 0        0        0         0      0            0      0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0        0                 0        0        0         0      0            0      0
Storage Cap Reductn               0        0                 0        0        0         0      0            0      0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.50     1.02              0.39     0.77     0.48      0.11   0.98         0.48   0.15
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 53 (62%), Referenced to phase 2:EBTL and 6:WBTL, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 85
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 1.02
Intersection Signal Delay: 39.6                              Intersection LOS: D
Intersection Capacity Utilization 84.5%                      ICU Level of Service E
Analysis Period (min) 15
~ Volume exceeds capacity, queue is theoretically infinite.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   2: JAMES ST & STATE ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                           Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                           Page 4
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
3: JAMES ST & TOWNSEND ST                                                                                                     10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR        NBL      NBT      NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     35      616      82        42      705      47        266      486      112        42     291      43
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900     1900    1900      1900     1900    1900       1900     1900    1900      1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             150                0       150                0         105                0       150               0
Storage Lanes                     1                0         1                0           1                1         1               0
Taper Length (ft)                25               25        25               25          25               25        25              25
Lane Util. Factor              1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                         0.99                       1.00                0.99             0.97      1.00    0.99
Frt                                    0.982                      0.991                                0.850             0.981
Flt Protected                 0.950                      0.950                       0.950                      0.950
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      1813        0    1770      1838        0     1770      1863     1583    1770      1816       0
Flt Permitted                 0.095                      0.136                       0.417                      0.264
Satd. Flow (perm)               177     1813        0      253     1838       0        766     1863     1530      490     1816       0
Right Turn on Red                                 Yes                       Yes                          Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                        11                           6                                  119                11
Link Speed (mph)                         30                         30                           30                         30
Link Distance (ft)                      777                        459                          200                        317
Travel Time (s)                         17.7                       10.4                         4.5                        7.2
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              20                25       25                20        16                 8        8               16
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 2                          8
Peak Hour Factor               0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94      0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94
Adj. Flow (vph)                  37      655       87       45      750       50       283      517      119       45      310       46
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            37      742        0       45      800        0       283      517     119        45      356        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No        No       No      No         No       No      No        No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right       Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                         12                          12                         12
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                           0                          0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                          16                         16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                        Perm              Perm     Perm
Protected Phases                           2                          2                           4                          4
Permitted Phases                  2                          2                           4                 4        4
Detector Phase                    2        2                 2        2                  4        4        4        4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0                4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              45.0      45.0              45.0     45.0               35.0     35.0     35.0     35.0     35.0
Total Split (s)                45.0      45.0     0.0      45.0     45.0     0.0       40.0     40.0     40.0     40.0     40.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              52.9%     52.9%    0.0%     52.9%    52.9%    0.0%      47.1%    47.1%    47.1%    47.1%    47.1%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              40.0      40.0              40.0     40.0               35.0     35.0     35.0     35.0     35.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0                4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0               1.0      1.0                1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0       -2.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0        3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                   3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                 C-Max C-Max                  Max      Max      Max      Max      Max

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                                  Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                  Page 5
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
3: JAMES ST & TOWNSEND ST                                                                                             10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Walk Time (s)                   7.0      7.0               7.0     7.0                 7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0     7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            13.0     13.0              13.0    13.0                17.0   17.0   17.0   17.0    17.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5        5                 5       5                   5      5      5      5       5
Act Effct Green (s)            42.0     42.0              42.0    42.0                37.0   37.0   37.0   37.0    37.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.49     0.49              0.49    0.49                0.44   0.44   0.44   0.44    0.44
v/c Ratio                      0.43     0.82              0.36    0.88                0.85   0.64   0.16   0.21    0.45
Control Delay                  16.8     16.7              14.8    20.7                47.3   23.2    3.6   18.2    18.5
Queue Delay                     0.0      0.0               0.0     0.0                 0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0
Total Delay                    16.8     16.7              14.8    20.7                47.3   23.2    3.6   18.2    18.5
LOS                               B        B                 B       C                   D      C      A      B       B
Approach Delay                          16.7                      20.4                       28.1                  18.5
Approach LOS                               B                         C                          C                     B
Queue Length 50th (ft)           3       257                4      157                  89    142     0     10       85
Queue Length 95th (ft)          m3     m264                m8     #403                #192    215    20     27      134
Internal Link Dist (ft)                  697                       379                        120                   237
Turn Bay Length (ft)           150                        150                         105                   150
Base Capacity (vph)              87      901              125      911                333    811    733    213     797
Starvation Cap Reductn            0        0                 0        0                  0      0      0      0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0        0                 0        0                  0      0      0      0       0
Storage Cap Reductn               0        0                 0        0                  0      0      0      0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.43     0.82              0.36     0.88               0.85   0.64   0.16   0.21    0.45
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 4 (5%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.88
Intersection Signal Delay: 21.6                              Intersection LOS: C
Intersection Capacity Utilization 84.8%                      ICU Level of Service E
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   3: JAMES ST & TOWNSEND ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                            Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                            Page 6
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
4: JAMES ST & MCBRIDE ST                                                                                                     10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR        NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     55      695      20        13      720      43         19       65       7       70       78      55
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900     1900    1900      1900     1900    1900       1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             150                0       150                0          0                0        0                0
Storage Lanes                     1                0         1                0          0                0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)                25               25        25               25         25               25       25               25
Lane Util. Factor              1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                         1.00                       0.99                        0.99                      0.98
Frt                                    0.996                      0.992                       0.989                     0.963
Flt Protected                 0.950                      0.950                                0.990                     0.983
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      1851        0    1770      1836        0         0    1818        0        0    1743        0
Flt Permitted                 0.201                      0.231                                0.928                     0.879
Satd. Flow (perm)               374     1851        0      430     1836       0          0     1699       0        0    1549        0
Right Turn on Red                                 Yes                       Yes                         Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                          3                          7                           5                        22
Link Speed (mph)                         30                         30                           30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      459                        455                          383                       324
Travel Time (s)                         10.4                       10.3                         8.7                       7.4
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              36                26       26                36        10               10       10               10
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 6                          5
Peak Hour Factor               0.89     0.89     0.89     0.89     0.89     0.89      0.89     0.89    0.89     0.89     0.89     0.89
Adj. Flow (vph)                  62      781       22       15      809       48        21       73       8       79       88       62
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            62      803        0       15      857        0         0      102        0       0      229        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No        No       No      No         No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right       Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                         12                           0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                           0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                          16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                           2                          2                           4                         4
Permitted Phases                  2                          2                           4                         4
Detector Phase                    2        2                 2        2                  4        4                4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0                4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              59.0      59.0              59.0     59.0               26.0     26.0             26.0     26.0
Total Split (s)                59.0      59.0     0.0      59.0     59.0     0.0       26.0     26.0     0.0     26.0     26.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              69.4%     69.4%    0.0%     69.4%    69.4%    0.0%      30.6%    30.6%    0.0%    30.6%    30.6%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              54.0      54.0              54.0     54.0               21.0     21.0             21.0     21.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0                4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0               1.0      1.0                1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0       -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0        3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                   3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                 C-Max C-Max                  Max      Max              Max      Max

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                                 Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                 Page 7
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
4: JAMES ST & MCBRIDE ST                                                                                             10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR   SBL     SBT     SBR
Walk Time (s)                   7.0      7.0               7.0     7.0                 7.0    7.0          7.0     7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            10.0     10.0              10.0    10.0                11.0   11.0         11.0    11.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5        5                 5       5                   5      5            5       5
Act Effct Green (s)            56.0     56.0              56.0    56.0                       23.0                 23.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.66     0.66              0.66    0.66                       0.27                 0.27
v/c Ratio                      0.25     0.66              0.05    0.71                       0.22                 0.53
Control Delay                   6.7      6.5               4.0     8.2                       24.4                 28.9
Queue Delay                     0.0      0.1               0.0     0.2                        0.0                  0.0
Total Delay                     6.7      6.7               4.0     8.5                       24.4                 28.9
LOS                               A        A                 A       A                          C                    C
Approach Delay                           6.7                       8.4                       24.4                 28.9
Approach LOS                               A                         A                          C                    C
Queue Length 50th (ft)           3        42                1      102                         27                   64
Queue Length 95th (ft)         m10     m120                m2      116                         54                  110
Internal Link Dist (ft)                  379                       375                        303                  244
Turn Bay Length (ft)           150                        150
Base Capacity (vph)            246     1221               283     1212                       463                  435
Starvation Cap Reductn            0      44                  0       6                          0                    0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0       0                  0      54                          0                    0
Storage Cap Reductn               0       0                  0       0                          0                    0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.25    0.68               0.05    0.74                       0.22                 0.53
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 6 (7%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 85
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.71
Intersection Signal Delay: 10.7                              Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 70.7%                      ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   4: JAMES ST & MCBRIDE ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                           Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                           Page 8
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
5: JAMES ST & CATHERINE ST                                                                                                   10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR        NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     33      696      43        71      598      28        136      214      68        7      136      42
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900     1900    1900      1900     1900    1900       1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             150                0       150                0          0                0        0                0
Storage Lanes                     1                0         1                0          0                0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)                25               25        25               25         25               25       25               25
Lane Util. Factor              1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                         1.00                       1.00                        0.97                      0.98
Frt                                    0.991                      0.993                       0.978                     0.969
Flt Protected                 0.950                      0.950                                0.984                     0.998
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      1838        0    1770      1844        0         0    1763        0        0    1772        0
Flt Permitted                 0.257                      0.177                                0.815                     0.984
Satd. Flow (perm)               479     1838        0      330     1844       0          0     1444       0        0    1745        0
Right Turn on Red                                 Yes                       Yes                         Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                          6                          4                          13                        20
Link Speed (mph)                         30                         30                           30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      455                        884                          352                       335
Travel Time (s)                         10.3                       20.1                         8.0                       7.6
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              19                20       20                19        23               38       38                23
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 6                          8                                                     2
Peak Hour Factor               0.97     0.97     0.97     0.97     0.97     0.97      0.97     0.97    0.97     0.97     0.97     0.97
Adj. Flow (vph)                  34      718       44       73      616       29       140      221      70        7      140       43
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            34      762        0       73      645        0         0      431        0       0      190        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No        No       No      No         No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right       Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                         12                           0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                           0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                          16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                           2                          2                           4                         4
Permitted Phases                  2                          2                           4                         4
Detector Phase                    2        2                 2        2                  4        4                4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0                4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              50.0      50.0              50.0     50.0               26.0     26.0             26.0     26.0
Total Split (s)                50.0      50.0     0.0      50.0     50.0     0.0       35.0     35.0     0.0     35.0     35.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              58.8%     58.8%    0.0%     58.8%    58.8%    0.0%      41.2%    41.2%    0.0%    41.2%    41.2%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              45.0      45.0              45.0     45.0               30.0     30.0             30.0     30.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0                4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0               1.0      1.0                1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0       -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0        3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                   3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                 C-Max C-Max                  Max      Max              Max      Max

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                                 Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                 Page 9
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
5: JAMES ST & CATHERINE ST                                                                                           10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR   SBL     SBT     SBR
Walk Time (s)                   7.0      7.0               7.0     7.0                 7.0    7.0          7.0     7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            10.0     10.0              10.0    10.0                12.0   12.0         12.0    12.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5        5                 5       5                   5      5            5       5
Act Effct Green (s)            47.0     47.0              47.0    47.0                       32.0                 32.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.55     0.55              0.55    0.55                       0.38                 0.38
v/c Ratio                      0.13     0.75              0.40    0.63                       0.78                 0.28
Control Delay                   9.0     14.4              19.3    16.5                       34.6                 17.9
Queue Delay                     0.0      0.1               0.0     0.0                        0.0                  0.0
Total Delay                     9.0     14.5              19.3    16.5                       34.6                 17.9
LOS                               A        B                 B       B                          C                    B
Approach Delay                          14.2                      16.8                       34.6                 17.9
Approach LOS                               B                         B                          C                    B
Queue Length 50th (ft)           4       137                14     149                        132                   42
Queue Length 95th (ft)          m6       220                41     225                       #236                   76
Internal Link Dist (ft)                  375                       804                        272                  255
Turn Bay Length (ft)           150                        150
Base Capacity (vph)            265     1019               182     1021                       552                  669
Starvation Cap Reductn            0      11                  0       0                          0                    0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0       0                  0       0                          0                    0
Storage Cap Reductn               0       0                  0       0                          0                    0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.13    0.76               0.40    0.63                       0.78                 0.28
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 6 (7%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.78
Intersection Signal Delay: 19.5                              Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 95.9%                      ICU Level of Service F
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   5: JAMES ST & CATHERINE ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                           Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                          Page 10
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                                                                        10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR        NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     13      745      13         13     589      74         74      510     106       47      224      34
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900     1900    1900      1900     1900    1900       1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             150                0        150               0          0                0        0                0
Storage Lanes                     1                0          1               0          0                0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)                25               25         25              25         25               25       25               25
Lane Util. Factor              1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00       0.95     0.95    0.95     0.95     0.95    0.95
Ped Bike Factor                1.00     1.00               1.00    1.00                        0.99                      0.99
Frt                                    0.997                      0.983                       0.977                     0.983
Flt Protected                 0.950                      0.950                                0.995                     0.992
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      1856        0    1770      1823        0         0    3404        0        0    3430        0
Flt Permitted                 0.119                      0.119                                0.864                     0.697
Satd. Flow (perm)               221     1856        0      221     1823       0          0     2950       0        0    2406        0
Right Turn on Red                                 Yes                       Yes                         Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                          1                          8                          32                        21
Link Speed (mph)                         30                          30                          30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      884                        1883                        1359                       423
Travel Time (s)                         20.1                       42.8                        30.9                       9.6
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              20                14       14                20        23               32       32               23
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                          2                          1
Peak Hour Factor               0.85     0.85     0.85     0.85     0.85     0.85      0.85     0.85    0.85     0.85     0.85     0.85
Adj. Flow (vph)                  15      876       15       15      693       87        87      600     125       55      264       40
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            15      891        0       15      780        0         0      812        0       0      359        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No        No       No      No         No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right       Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                         12                           0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                           0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                          16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                           1                          1                           2                         2
Permitted Phases                  1                          1                           2                         2
Detector Phase                    1        1                 1        1                  2        2                2        2
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0                4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              19.0      19.0              19.0     19.0               26.0     26.0             26.0     26.0
Total Split (s)                19.0      19.0     0.0      19.0     19.0     0.0       26.0     26.0     0.0     26.0     26.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              27.1%     27.1%    0.0%     27.1%    27.1%    0.0%      37.1%    37.1%    0.0%    37.1%    37.1%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              14.0      14.0              14.0     14.0               21.0     21.0             21.0     21.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0                4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0               1.0      1.0                1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0       -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0        3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                      Lead      Lead              Lead     Lead                 Lag      Lag              Lag      Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0      3.0               3.0      3.0                3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                   C-Min    C-Min             C-Min    C-Min               Max      Max              Max      Max

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                                 Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                Page 11
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                                        10/7/2011



Lane Group                       ø3
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
Storage Length (ft)
Storage Lanes
Taper Length (ft)
Lane Util. Factor
Ped Bike Factor
Frt
Flt Protected
Satd. Flow (prot)
Flt Permitted
Satd. Flow (perm)
Right Turn on Red
Satd. Flow (RTOR)
Link Speed (mph)
Link Distance (ft)
Travel Time (s)
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)
Peak Hour Factor
Adj. Flow (vph)
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
Enter Blocked Intersection
Lane Alignment
Median Width(ft)
Link Offset(ft)
Crosswalk Width(ft)
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor
Turn Type
Protected Phases                  3
Permitted Phases
Detector Phase
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0
Minimum Split (s)              25.0
Total Split (s)                25.0
Total Split (%)                36%
Maximum Green (s)              22.0
Yellow Time (s)                 3.0
All-Red Time (s)                0.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)
Total Lost Time (s)
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0
Recall Mode                   None

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                  Page 12
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                                                               10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR         NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Walk Time (s)
Flash Dont Walk (s)
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)
Act Effct Green (s)            36.0     36.0              36.0    36.0                       23.0                23.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.51     0.51              0.51    0.51                       0.33                0.33
v/c Ratio                      0.13     0.93              0.13    0.83                       0.82                0.45
Control Delay                  20.0     37.6              24.8    33.9                       29.2                19.5
Queue Delay                     0.0      0.0               0.0     0.0                        0.0                 0.0
Total Delay                    20.0     37.6              24.8    33.9                       29.2                19.5
LOS                               B        D                 C       C                          C                   B
Approach Delay                          37.3                      33.8                       29.2                19.5
Approach LOS                               D                         C                          C                   B
Queue Length 50th (ft)            2      186                0      205                        108                  40
Queue Length 95th (ft)          #16     #538               m9     #474                        143                  60
Internal Link Dist (ft)                  804                      1803                       1279                343
Turn Bay Length (ft)           150                        150
Base Capacity (vph)            113      955               113      941                       991                 805
Starvation Cap Reductn            0        0                 0        0                         0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0        0                 0        0                         0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn               0        0                 0        0                         0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.13     0.93              0.13     0.83                      0.82                0.45
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 70
Actuated Cycle Length: 70
Offset: 40 (57%), Referenced to phase 1:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.93
Intersection Signal Delay: 31.8                               Intersection LOS: C
Intersection Capacity Utilization 83.4%                       ICU Level of Service E
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   6: JAMES ST & LODI ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                          Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                         Page 13
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                                        10/7/2011



Lane Group                      ø3
Walk Time (s)                   7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            15.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5
Act Effct Green (s)
Actuated g/C Ratio
v/c Ratio
Control Delay
Queue Delay
Total Delay
LOS
Approach Delay
Approach LOS
Queue Length 50th (ft)
Queue Length 95th (ft)
Internal Link Dist (ft)
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
Starvation Cap Reductn
Spillback Cap Reductn
Storage Cap Reductn
Reduced v/c Ratio
Intersection Summary




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                  Page 14
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
7: JAMES ST & OAK ST                                                                                                         10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR        NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     30      826      42        66      538      25         74      109      53       30      169      64
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900     1900    1900      1900     1900    1900       1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             150                0       150                0          0                0        0                0
Storage Lanes                     1                0         1                0          0                0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)                25               25        25               25         25               25       25               25
Lane Util. Factor              1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                0.99     1.00                       1.00                        0.98                      0.99
Frt                                    0.993                      0.993                       0.970                     0.967
Flt Protected                 0.950                      0.950                                0.985                     0.994
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      1843        0    1770      1845        0         0    1759        0        0    1771        0
Flt Permitted                 0.331                      0.135                                0.722                     0.947
Satd. Flow (perm)               613     1843        0      251     1845       0          0     1284       0        0    1684        0
Right Turn on Red                                 Yes                       Yes                         Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                          5                          5                         25                        28
Link Speed (mph)                          30                         30                         30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      1883                       1028                        495                       602
Travel Time (s)                         42.8                       23.4                        11.3                      13.7
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              13                23       23                13        14               18       18               14
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 2                          5
Peak Hour Factor               0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90      0.90     0.90    0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90
Adj. Flow (vph)                  33      918       47       73      598       28        82      121      59       33      188       71
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            33      965        0       73      626        0         0      262        0       0      292        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No        No       No      No         No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right       Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                         12                           0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                           0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                          16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                           2                          2                           4                         4
Permitted Phases                  2                          2                           4                         4
Detector Phase                    2        2                 2        2                  4        4                4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0                4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              39.0      39.0              39.0     39.0               31.0     31.0             31.0     31.0
Total Split (s)                39.0      39.0     0.0      39.0     39.0     0.0       31.0     31.0     0.0     31.0     31.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              55.7%     55.7%    0.0%     55.7%    55.7%    0.0%      44.3%    44.3%    0.0%    44.3%    44.3%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              34.0      34.0              34.0     34.0               26.0     26.0             26.0     26.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0                4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0               1.0      1.0                1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0       -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0        3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                   3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                 C-Max C-Max                 None     None             None     None

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                                 Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                Page 15
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
7: JAMES ST & OAK ST                                                                                                  10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL   EBT         EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR         NBL    NBT    NBR   SBL     SBT     SBR
Walk Time (s)                   7.0   7.0                  7.0     7.0                  7.0    7.0          7.0     7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)             9.0   9.0                  9.0     9.0                 13.0   13.0         13.0    13.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5     5                    5       5                    5      5            5       5
Act Effct Green (s)            45.2 45.2                  45.2    45.2                        18.8                 18.8
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.65 0.65                  0.65    0.65                        0.27                 0.27
v/c Ratio                      0.08 0.81                  0.45    0.52                        0.72                 0.62
Control Delay                   6.7  22.0                 23.2    12.4                        31.9                 25.2
Queue Delay                     0.0   0.0                  0.0     0.0                         0.0                  0.0
Total Delay                     6.7  22.0                 23.2    12.4                        31.9                 25.2
LOS                               A    C                     C       B                           C                    C
Approach Delay                       21.5                         13.5                        31.9                 25.2
Approach LOS                           C                             B                           C                    C
Queue Length 50th (ft)            6  286                   11      117                          63                   68
Queue Length 95th (ft)          m2 m#368                  m36      253                          99                  100
Internal Link Dist (ft)             1803                           948                         415                  522
Turn Bay Length (ft)           150                        150
Base Capacity (vph)            396  1192                  162     1193                        529                  690
Starvation Cap Reductn            0     0                    0       0                           0                    0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0     0                    0       0                           0                    0
Storage Cap Reductn               0     0                    0       0                           0                    0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.08 0.81                  0.45    0.52                        0.50                 0.42
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 70
Actuated Cycle Length: 70
Offset: 43 (61%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.81
Intersection Signal Delay: 20.7                               Intersection LOS: C
Intersection Capacity Utilization 87.9%                       ICU Level of Service E
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   7: JAMES ST & OAK ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                            Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                           Page 16
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
8: JAMES ST & DEWITT ST                                                                                                      10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR        NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     54      847       8         1      551     136         24        0       6      179        4      54
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900     1900    1900      1900     1900    1900       1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             150                0       150                0          0                0        0                0
Storage Lanes                     1                0         1                0          0                0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)                25               25        25               25         25               25       25               25
Lane Util. Factor              1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                         1.00                       0.99                        0.98                      0.97
Frt                                    0.999                      0.970                       0.971                     0.969
Flt Protected                 0.950                      0.950                                0.962                     0.964
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      1860        0    1770      1789        0         0    1719        0        0    1728        0
Flt Permitted                 0.261                      0.158                                0.791                     0.757
Satd. Flow (perm)               486     1860        0      294     1789       0          0     1409       0        0    1320        0
Right Turn on Red                                 Yes                       Yes                         Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                          1                         32                           7                       22
Link Speed (mph)                          30                         30                          30                       30
Link Distance (ft)                      1028                        271                         427                      658
Travel Time (s)                         23.4                        6.2                         9.7                      15.0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              14                 4        4                14         4               22       22                 4
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 4                          2                                                     2
Peak Hour Factor               0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92      0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                  59      921        9        1      599      148        26        0       7      195        4       59
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            59      930        0        1      747        0         0       33        0       0      258        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No        No       No      No         No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right       Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                         12                           0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                           0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                          16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                           2                          2                           4                         4
Permitted Phases                  2                          2                           4                         4
Detector Phase                    2        2                 2        2                  4        4                4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0                4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              45.0      45.0              45.0     45.0               25.0     25.0             25.0     25.0
Total Split (s)                45.0      45.0     0.0      45.0     45.0     0.0       25.0     25.0     0.0     25.0     25.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              64.3%     64.3%    0.0%     64.3%    64.3%    0.0%      35.7%    35.7%    0.0%    35.7%    35.7%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              40.0      40.0              40.0     40.0               20.0     20.0             20.0     20.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0                4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0               1.0      1.0                1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0       -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0        3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                   3.0   3.0                  3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                 C-Max C-Max                 None     None             None     None

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                                 Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                Page 17
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
8: JAMES ST & DEWITT ST                                                                                               10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL   EBT         EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR         NBL    NBT    NBR   SBL     SBT     SBR
Walk Time (s)                   7.0   7.0                  7.0     7.0                  7.0    7.0          7.0     7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)             9.0   9.0                  9.0     9.0                 13.0   13.0         13.0    13.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5     5                    5       5                    5      5            5       5
Act Effct Green (s)            45.5 45.5                  45.5    45.5                        18.5                 18.5
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.65 0.65                  0.65    0.65                        0.26                 0.26
v/c Ratio                      0.19 0.77                  0.01    0.64                        0.09                 0.71
Control Delay                   2.4   7.9                  8.0    11.2                        15.3                 31.8
Queue Delay                     0.0   4.6                  0.0     0.0                         0.0                  0.0
Total Delay                     2.4  12.5                  8.0    11.2                        15.3                 31.8
LOS                               A     B                    A       B                           B                    C
Approach Delay                       11.9                         11.2                        15.3                 31.8
Approach LOS                            B                            B                           B                    C
Queue Length 50th (ft)            2    27                   0       85                           6                   61
Queue Length 95th (ft)          m2 m#370                   m1      203                          18                  108
Internal Link Dist (ft)              948                           191                         347                  578
Turn Bay Length (ft)           150                        150
Base Capacity (vph)            316  1209                  191     1174                        448                  430
Starvation Cap Reductn            0     0                    0       0                           0                    0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0  210                     0       0                           0                    2
Storage Cap Reductn               0     0                    0       0                           0                    0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.19 0.93                  0.01    0.64                        0.07                 0.60
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 70
Actuated Cycle Length: 70
Offset: 68 (97%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 70
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.77
Intersection Signal Delay: 14.2                               Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 66.4%                       ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   8: JAMES ST & DEWITT ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                            Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                           Page 18
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
9: JAMES ST & SEDGEWICK ST                                                                   10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      NBL      NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    880      152       29      585      103      30
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900    1900      1900     1900    1900     1900
Storage Length (ft)                      150      150                 0       0
Storage Lanes                              1        1                 1       0
Taper Length (ft)                         25       25                25      25
Lane Util. Factor              1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                         0.94                       0.97
Frt                                    0.850                      0.969
Flt Protected                                   0.950             0.963
Satd. Flow (prot)              1863     1583    1770      1863    1728         0
Flt Permitted                                   0.159             0.963
Satd. Flow (perm)              1863     1489      296     1863    1692        0
Right Turn on Red                        Yes                                Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                        155                         21
Link Speed (mph)                 30                         30       30
Link Distance (ft)              271                       1437      521
Travel Time (s)                 6.2                       32.7     11.8
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                       18       18                14        2
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                        2                                   1
Peak Hour Factor               0.98     0.98     0.98     0.98     0.98     0.98
Adj. Flow (vph)                898      155        30      597      105       31
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)           898     155        30      597      136       0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No      No        No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left   Right      Left     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                 12                         12       12
Link Offset(ft)                   0                          0        0
Crosswalk Width(ft)              16                         16       16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                              Perm     Perm
Protected Phases                  2                          2        4
Permitted Phases                           2        2
Detector Phase                    2        2        2        2        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0       4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              47.0      47.0     47.0     47.0     23.0
Total Split (s)                47.0      47.0     47.0     47.0     23.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              67.1%     67.1%    67.1%    67.1%    32.9%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              42.0      42.0     42.0     42.0     18.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       4.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0               3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max C-Max C-Max               Max

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                  Page 19
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
9: JAMES ST & SEDGEWICK ST                                                                     10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT       NBL      NBR
Walk Time (s)                   7.0      7.0      7.0     7.0       7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)             9.0      9.0      9.0     9.0      11.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5        5        5       5         5
Act Effct Green (s)            44.0     43.0     44.0    44.0      20.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.63     0.61     0.63    0.63      0.29
v/c Ratio                      0.77     0.16     0.16    0.51      0.27
Control Delay                  12.8      0.5      7.8     8.0      18.0
Queue Delay                     7.2      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.4
Total Delay                    20.0      0.5      7.8     8.1      18.3
LOS                               B        A        A       A         B
Approach Delay                 17.1                       8.1      18.3
Approach LOS                      B                         A         B
Queue Length 50th (ft)         229        1        3       60        26
Queue Length 95th (ft)         294       m0       m9       97        54
Internal Link Dist (ft)        191                       1357       441
Turn Bay Length (ft)                     150      150
Base Capacity (vph)            1171      974      186    1171       509
Starvation Cap Reductn          232        0        0       0         0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0        0        0      34       121
Storage Cap Reductn               0        0        0       0         0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.96     0.16     0.16    0.53      0.35
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 70
Actuated Cycle Length: 70
Offset: 12 (17%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 70
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.77
Intersection Signal Delay: 14.1                               Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 68.0%                       ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   9: JAMES ST & SEDGEWICK ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis     Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                    Page 20
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
10: JAMES ST & WILSON ST                                                                     10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      NBL      NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    902       8        28      595       19      22
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900    1900      1900     1900    1900     1900
Storage Length (ft)                       0       150                 0       0
Storage Lanes                             0         1                 1       0
Taper Length (ft)                        25        25                25      25
Lane Util. Factor              1.00    1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                1.00                                1.00
Frt                           0.999                               0.928
Flt Protected                                   0.950             0.977
Satd. Flow (prot)              1860        0    1770      1863    1689         0
Flt Permitted                                   0.222             0.977
Satd. Flow (perm)              1860        0      414     1863    1687        0
Right Turn on Red                        Yes                                Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                 1                                  24
Link Speed (mph)                 30                         30       30
Link Distance (ft)             1437                       1093      701
Travel Time (s)                32.7                       24.8     15.9
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                       20       20                 1
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                        6
Peak Hour Factor               0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                980         9       30      647       21       24
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)           989       0        30      647       45        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No      No        No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left   Right      Left     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                 12                         12       12
Link Offset(ft)                   0                          0        0
Crosswalk Width(ft)              16                         16       16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                                       Perm
Protected Phases                  2                          2        4
Permitted Phases                                    2
Detector Phase                    2                 2        2        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0                4.0      4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              45.0               45.0     45.0     25.0
Total Split (s)                45.0      0.0      45.0     45.0     25.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              64.3%     0.0%     64.3%    64.3%    35.7%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              40.0               40.0     40.0     20.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0                4.0      4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0                1.0      1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0                3.0   3.0        3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max              C-Max C-Max       None

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                  Page 21
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
10: JAMES ST & WILSON ST                                                                     10/7/2011



Lane Group                      EBT     EBR      WBL     WBT       NBL      NBR
Walk Time (s)                    7.0              7.0     7.0       7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)             10.0             10.0    10.0      13.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)            5                5       5         5
Act Effct Green (s)            58.5              58.5    58.5      10.9
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.84              0.84    0.84      0.16
v/c Ratio                      0.64              0.09    0.42      0.16
Control Delay                  14.9               4.6     4.8      14.7
Queue Delay                      0.0              0.0     0.0       0.0
Total Delay                    14.9               4.6     4.8      14.7
LOS                                B                A       A         B
Approach Delay                 14.9                       4.8      14.7
Approach LOS                       B                        A         B
Queue Length 50th (ft)          303                 1      39         6
Queue Length 95th (ft)         #438                11     163        18
Internal Link Dist (ft)        1357                      1013       621
Turn Bay Length (ft)                             150
Base Capacity (vph)            1554              346     1556       547
Starvation Cap Reductn            0                 0       0         0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0                 0       0         0
Storage Cap Reductn               0                 0       0         0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.64              0.09    0.42      0.08
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 70
Actuated Cycle Length: 70
Offset: 0 (0%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 70
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.64
Intersection Signal Delay: 10.9                             Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 58.0%                     ICU Level of Service B
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

Splits and Phases:   10: JAMES ST & WILSON ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                  Page 22
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
11: JAMES ST & TEALL AVE                                                                                                     10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR       NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    238      510     176       185      378       34       125      478     101       25      524     120
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900     1900    1900      1900     1900     1900      1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             160                0        125                0         0                0        0                0
Storage Lanes                     1                0          1                0         0                0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)                25               25         25               25        25               25       25               25
Lane Util. Factor              1.00     1.00    1.00      1.00     1.00     1.00      0.95     0.95    0.95     0.95     0.95    0.95
Ped Bike Factor                0.99     0.99               0.99    1.00                        1.00                      0.98
Frt                                    0.962                      0.988                       0.978                     0.973
Flt Protected                 0.950                      0.950                                0.991                     0.998
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      1768        0    1770      1834        0         0    3416        0        0    3353        0
Flt Permitted                 0.950                      0.950                                0.576                     0.867
Satd. Flow (perm)             1744      1768        0    1745      1834        0         0    1986        0        0    2912        0
Right Turn on Red                                 Yes                        Yes                        Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                         15                          4                          16                        15
Link Speed (mph)                          30                         30                          30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      1093                       2248                         180                       188
Travel Time (s)                         24.8                       51.1                         4.1                       4.3
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              11                16       16                11        29                2        2               29
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                          1
Peak Hour Factor               0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92      0.92    0.92      0.92     0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92
Adj. Flow (vph)                259      554      191      201       411       37       136      520     110       27      570      130
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)           259      745       0       201      448        0         0      766       0        0      727       0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No        No       No       No        No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right      Left     Left    Right      Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                         12                           0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                           0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                          16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                      Prot                       Prot                       pm+pt                     Perm
Protected Phases                  1        6                 5         2                 7        4                         8
Permitted Phases                                                                         4                         8
Detector Phase                    1        6                 5         2                 7        4                8        8
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             5.0       5.0               5.0       5.0               5.0      5.0              5.0      5.0
Minimum Split (s)               9.5      22.0               9.5     22.0               10.0     22.0             22.0     22.0
Total Split (s)                30.0      58.0     0.0      25.0     53.0      0.0      35.0     57.0     0.0     22.0     22.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              21.4%     41.4%    0.0%     17.9%    37.9%     0.0%     25.0%    40.7%    0.0%    15.7%    15.7%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              25.5      53.0              20.5     48.0               30.0     52.0             17.0     17.0
Yellow Time (s)                 3.5       4.0               3.5       4.0               4.0      4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0               1.0       1.0               1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0      -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             2.5       3.0      3.0      2.5      3.0      3.0       3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                      Lead        Lag             Lead       Lag              Lead                        Lag      Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0       3.0               3.0      3.0                3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                   None       Min             None       Min              None     None             None     None

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                                 Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                Page 23
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
11: JAMES ST & TEALL AVE                                                                                           10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR       NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL     SBT     SBR
Walk Time (s)                            7.0                        7.0                     7.0          7.0     7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)                     10.0                      10.0                     10.0         10.0    10.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)                    5                          5                       5            5       5
Act Effct Green (s)            24.9     55.1              20.4    50.7                     51.9                 51.9
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.18     0.41              0.15    0.37                     0.38                 0.38
v/c Ratio                      0.80     1.03              0.76    0.65                     1.00                 0.65
Control Delay                  72.1     79.8              74.3    41.6                     73.1                 37.2
Queue Delay                     0.0      0.0               0.0     0.0                      0.0                  0.0
Total Delay                    72.1     79.8              74.3    41.6                     73.1                 37.2
LOS                               E        E                 E       D                        E                    D
Approach Delay                          77.8                      51.7                     73.1                 37.2
Approach LOS                               E                         D                        E                    D
Queue Length 50th (ft)          153    ~500               119      233                      242                  188
Queue Length 95th (ft)         #232    #671              #182      320                     #342                  236
Internal Link Dist (ft)                1013                       2168                      100                  108
Turn Bay Length (ft)           160                        125
Base Capacity (vph)            359      726               293      686                     800                 1120
Starvation Cap Reductn            0        0                 0        0                       0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0        0                 0        0                       0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn               0        0                 0        0                       0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.72     1.03              0.69     0.65                    0.96                0.65
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 140
Actuated Cycle Length: 136
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Uncoordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 1.03
Intersection Signal Delay: 61.9                             Intersection LOS: E
Intersection Capacity Utilization 101.2%                    ICU Level of Service G
Analysis Period (min) 15
~ Volume exceeds capacity, queue is theoretically infinite.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

Splits and Phases:   11: JAMES ST & TEALL AVE




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                         Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                        Page 24
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                                                                         10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR        NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                      0      574       62       14      470       0         42        0      77      329       72      85
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900     1900    1900      1900     1900    1900       1900     1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)               0               150        0                0          0                0        0                0
Storage Lanes                     0                 1        0                0          0                0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)                25                25       25               25         25               25       25               25
Lane Util. Factor              1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00       1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                                  0.96              1.00                        0.98                      0.96
Frt                                             0.850                                         0.913                     0.976
Flt Protected                                                     0.999                       0.983                     0.967
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0     1863     1583        0    1861         0         0    1637        0        0    1704        0
Flt Permitted                                                     0.981                       0.876                     0.698
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0     1863     1525        0    1827        0          0    1458        0        0    1222        0
Right Turn on Red                                 Yes                       Yes                         Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                                  63                                            79                         9
Link Speed (mph)                          30                         30                          30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      2248                        208                         239                       142
Travel Time (s)                         51.1                        4.7                         5.4                       3.2
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              26                23       23                26        47                4        4                47
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                          6                                                     7
Peak Hour Factor               0.98     0.98     0.98     0.98     0.98     0.98      0.98     0.98    0.98     0.98     0.98     0.98
Adj. Flow (vph)                   0      586       63       14      480        0        43        0      79      336       73       87
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)             0      586       63        0      494        0         0      122        0       0      496        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No        No       No      No         No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right       Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                         12                           0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                           0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                          16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turning Speed (mph)              15                 9       15                 9        15                9       15                 9
Turn Type                                       Perm     Perm                        Perm                      Perm
Protected Phases                        124                        124                            3                         3
Permitted Phases                                 124      124                            3                         3
Detector Phase                          124      124      124      124                   3        3                3        3
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)                                                                     8.0      8.0              8.0      8.0
Minimum Split (s)                                                                      22.0     22.0             22.0     22.0
Total Split (s)                 0.0      78.0     78.0     78.0     78.0     0.0       30.0     30.0     0.0     30.0     30.0     0.0
Total Split (%)               0.0%     72.2%    72.2%    72.2%    72.2%    0.0%      27.8%    27.8%    0.0%    27.8%    27.8%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)                                                                      25.5     25.5             25.5     25.5
Yellow Time (s)                                                                         3.5      3.5              3.5      3.5
All-Red Time (s)                                                                        1.0      1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)            0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Total Lost Time (s)             4.0      4.5      4.5      4.5      4.5      4.0        4.5      4.5     4.0      4.5      4.5     4.0
Lead/Lag                                                                              Lead     Lead             Lead     Lead
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)                                                                  3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                                 Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                Page 25
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                                         10/7/2011



Lane Group                       ø1       ø2       ø4
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
Storage Length (ft)
Storage Lanes
Taper Length (ft)
Lane Util. Factor
Ped Bike Factor
Frt
Flt Protected
Satd. Flow (prot)
Flt Permitted
Satd. Flow (perm)
Right Turn on Red
Satd. Flow (RTOR)
Link Speed (mph)
Link Distance (ft)
Travel Time (s)
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)
Peak Hour Factor
Adj. Flow (vph)
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
Enter Blocked Intersection
Lane Alignment
Median Width(ft)
Link Offset(ft)
Crosswalk Width(ft)
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor
Turning Speed (mph)
Turn Type
Protected Phases                  1        2        4
Permitted Phases
Detector Phase
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             5.0     10.0      5.0
Minimum Split (s)               9.5     22.0      9.5
Total Split (s)                13.0     40.0     25.0
Total Split (%)                12%      37%      23%
Maximum Green (s)               8.5     35.5     20.5
Yellow Time (s)                 3.5      3.5      3.5
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)
Total Lost Time (s)
Lead/Lag                       Lead      Lag      Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0      3.0      3.0

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                  Page 26
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                                                                    10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL     WBT      WBR        NBL     NBT    NBR    SBL      SBT    SBR
Recall Mode                                                                          None    None          None    None
Walk Time (s)                                                                          7.0     7.0           7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)                                                                   10.0    10.0          10.0    10.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)                                                                  5       5             5        5
Act Effct Green (s)                    72.8      72.8              72.8                       25.5                  25.5
Actuated g/C Ratio                     0.68      0.68              0.68                       0.24                  0.24
v/c Ratio                              0.46      0.06              0.40                       0.30                  1.67
Control Delay                           9.5       1.6               3.3                       16.0                 344.6
Queue Delay                             0.8       0.0               0.9                        0.1                 369.0
Total Delay                            10.3       1.6               4.2                       16.0                 713.6
LOS                                       B         A                 A                          B                      F
Approach Delay                          9.4                         4.2                       16.0                 713.6
Approach LOS                              A                           A                          B                      F
Queue Length 50th (ft)                  115         0                11                         16                 ~343
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  163         9                40                         50                  #484
Internal Link Dist (ft)                2168                        128                         159                     62
Turn Bay Length (ft)                             150
Base Capacity (vph)                    1260     1052              1235                       407                    297
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0        0               456                          0                   103
Spillback Cap Reductn                   365        0                  0                        15                      2
Storage Cap Reductn                       0        0                  0                         0                      0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.65     0.06               0.63                      0.31                   2.56
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 108
Actuated Cycle Length: 107.3
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Uncoordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 1.67
Intersection Signal Delay: 206.8                            Intersection LOS: F
Intersection Capacity Utilization 78.0%                     ICU Level of Service D
Analysis Period (min) 15
~ Volume exceeds capacity, queue is theoretically infinite.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

Splits and Phases:   12: JAMES ST & Grant




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                             Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                            Page 27
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                                         10/7/2011



Lane Group                      ø1        ø2      ø4
Recall Mode                   None       Min    None
Walk Time (s)                            7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)                     10.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)                    5
Act Effct Green (s)
Actuated g/C Ratio
v/c Ratio
Control Delay
Queue Delay
Total Delay
LOS
Approach Delay
Approach LOS
Queue Length 50th (ft)
Queue Length 95th (ft)
Internal Link Dist (ft)
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
Starvation Cap Reductn
Spillback Cap Reductn
Storage Cap Reductn
Reduced v/c Ratio
Intersection Summary




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                  Page 28
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
13: James S & Walgreens                                                                                                   10/7/2011



Lane Group                    EBL2      EBL      EBT      WBT      WBR     WBR2       SBL     SBR     SBR2    SEL     SER       ø3
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     91      109      780      452      386      10         38      32      12       0       0
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900     1900     1900     1900    1900     1900      1900     1900    1900    1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)                       75                        150                  0       0               0       0
Storage Lanes                              1                          1                  1       0               0       0
Taper Length (ft)                         25                         25                 25      25              25      25
Lane Util. Factor              1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                                                    0.81               0.97
Frt                                                               0.850              0.928
Flt Protected                          0.950                                         0.977
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0    1770      1863     1863     1583        0     1689        0       0       0       0
Flt Permitted                          0.344                                         0.977
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0      641     1863     1863     1277       0      1635        0       0       0       0
Right Turn on Red                                                           Yes                        Yes             Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                                                     1                  7
Link Speed (mph)                                   30      30                           30                      30
Link Distance (ft)                                208     618                          139                     186
Travel Time (s)                                   4.7     14.0                         3.2                     4.2
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              26                                  26       26        26
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                                   6        6
Peak Hour Factor               0.98     0.98     0.98     0.98     0.98     0.98      0.98    0.98    0.98    0.98    0.98
Adj. Flow (vph)                  93      111      796      461      394       10        39      33      12       0       0
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)             0      204      796      461     404         0        84        0       0      0       0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No       No       No      No       No         No      No      No      No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left     Left     Left   Right    Right       Left   Right   Right    Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                                   12       12                          12                       0
Link Offset(ft)                                     0        0                           0                       0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                                16       16                          16                      16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00   1.00       1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Turning Speed (mph)               15     15                           9        9        15       9       9      15       9
Turn Type                    custom custom                        Perm
Protected Phases                          1      123         2                           4                                       3
Permitted Phases                 23     23                            2
Detector Phase                   23       1      123         2        2                  4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)                       5.0              10.0     10.0                5.0                                     8.0
Minimum Split (s)                         9.5              22.0     22.0                9.5                                    22.0
Total Split (s)                70.0      13.0     83.0     40.0     40.0     0.0       25.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    30.0
Total Split (%)              64.8%     12.0%    76.9%    37.0%    37.0%    0.0%      23.1%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%     28%
Maximum Green (s)                         8.5              35.5     35.5               20.5                                    25.5
Yellow Time (s)                           3.5               3.5      3.5                3.5                                     3.5
All-Red Time (s)                          1.0               1.0      1.0                1.0                                     1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)            0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0        0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0
Total Lost Time (s)             4.5       4.5     4.5       4.5      4.5     4.0        4.5     4.0     4.0    4.0      4.0
Lead/Lag                                Lead                Lag      Lag                Lag                                   Lead
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)                    3.0               3.0      3.0                3.0                                      3.0

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                               Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                              Page 29
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
13: James S & Walgreens                                                                                             10/7/2011



Lane Group                    EBL2      EBL      EBT     WBT      WBR     WBR2        SBL    SBR   SBR2   SEL    SER       ø3
Recall Mode                            None               Min      Min               None                                None
Walk Time (s)                                              7.0     7.0                                                     7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)                                      10.0     10.0                                                    10.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)                                      5       5                                                       5
Act Effct Green (s)                     74.0     78.5    35.5     35.5                19.8
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.69     0.73    0.33     0.33                0.18
v/c Ratio                               0.38     0.58    0.75     0.96                0.26
Control Delay                            7.2     10.6    41.0     70.5                36.7
Queue Delay                              0.5      2.2     0.0      0.0                 0.0
Total Delay                              7.6     12.7    41.0     70.5                36.7
LOS                                        A        B       D        E                   D
Approach Delay                                   11.7    54.8                         36.7
Approach LOS                                        B       D                            D
Queue Length 50th (ft)                   38       190     192      185                  31
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  m40     m185      277     #322                  62
Internal Link Dist (ft)                           128     538                           59                106
Turn Bay Length (ft)                      75                        150
Base Capacity (vph)                     531     1363       616      423               328
Starvation Cap Reductn                    97     407         0        0                  0
Spillback Cap Reductn                      0       0         0        0                  0
Storage Cap Reductn                        0       0         0        0                  0
Reduced v/c Ratio                       0.47    0.83      0.75     0.96               0.26
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 108
Actuated Cycle Length: 107.3
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Uncoordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 1.67
Intersection Signal Delay: 31.9                              Intersection LOS: C
Intersection Capacity Utilization 53.4%                      ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   13: James S & Walgreens




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Fatal Flaw Analysis                          Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                         Page 30
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
1: JAMES ST & OSWEGO BLVD                                                                                                      10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    12       551     206       89      465        6      166            1       7        0        0       0
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900      1900    1900     1900     1900     1900    1900          1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)            150               150      150                 0        0                    0        0                0
Storage Lanes                    0                 0        0                 0        1                    0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)               25                25       25                25       25                   25       25               25
Satd. Flow (prot)                0     3364        0        0     3503        0    1681         1668        0        0     1863       0
Flt Permitted                          0.945                      0.722            0.950        0.950
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0    3183        0         0    2548        0    1681         1655        0        0     1863       0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                        Yes                           Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                         81                          2                             6
Link Speed (mph)                          30                        30                             30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                       229                       537                            242                       134
Travel Time (s)                          5.2                       12.2                           5.5                       3.0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)               2                19       19                 2          14               23       23               14
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                          4                            1
Peak Hour Factor               0.89     0.89     0.89     0.89     0.89     0.89        0.89     0.89    0.89     0.89     0.89     0.89
Shared Lane Traffic (%)                                                                 47%
Lane Group Flow (vph)             0      863        0       0      629         0          99       97        0       0        0       0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No       No       No       No           No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right     Left     Left    Right         Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                        12                             12                        12
Link Offset(ft)                            0                         0                              0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                        16                             16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00        1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turning Speed (mph)              15                 9       15                 9       15                   9       15                 9
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                       Perm                         Perm
Protected Phases                           1                          1                             2                         3
Permitted Phases                  1                          1                             2                         3
Detector Phase                    1        1                 1        1                    2        2                3        3
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0               4.0          4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              37.0      37.0             37.0     37.0              25.0         25.0             18.0     18.0
Total Split (s)                37.0      37.0     0.0     37.0     37.0      0.0     25.0         25.0     0.0     18.0     18.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              46.3%     46.3%    0.0%    46.3%    46.3%     0.0%    31.3%        31.3%    0.0%    22.5%    22.5%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              32.0      32.0             32.0     32.0              20.0         20.0             13.0     13.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0               4.0          4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0              1.0      1.0               1.0          1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0         -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0          3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                      Lead      Lead             Lead     Lead                Lag          Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                  3.0   3.0                     3.0      3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                C-Max C-Max                     Max      Max             None     None
Walk Time (s)                   7.0   7.0                  7.0   7.0                     7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            15.0  15.0                 15.0  15.0                    12.0     12.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5     5                    5     5                       5        5
Act Effct Green (s)                  52.0                       52.0                    22.0     22.0

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                                Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                   Page 1
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
1: JAMES ST & OSWEGO BLVD                                                                                             10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL    NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.65                      0.65                  0.28   0.28
v/c Ratio                               0.41                      0.38                  0.21   0.21
Control Delay                            6.7                       3.8                  23.9   22.4
Queue Delay                              0.0                       0.0                   0.0    0.0
Total Delay                              6.7                       3.8                  23.9   22.4
LOS                                        A                         A                     C      C
Approach Delay                           6.7                       3.8                         23.2
Approach LOS                               A                         A                            C
Queue Length 50th (ft)                    57                         8                   27      25
Queue Length 95th (ft)                    78                        12                   53      51
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 149                        457                          162                  54
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                    2097                       1657                  462    459
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0                          0                     0      0
Spillback Cap Reductn                     0                          0                     0      0
Storage Cap Reductn                       0                          0                     0      0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.41                       0.38                  0.21   0.21
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 44 (55%), Referenced to phase 1:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.41
Intersection Signal Delay: 7.5                                Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 66.8%                       ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   1: JAMES ST & OSWEGO BLVD




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                         Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                            Page 2
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
2: JAMES ST & STATE ST                                                                                                        10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     78      425      55      160      503      169       35         230      40      122      419      22
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900      1900    1900     1900     1900     1900    1900         1900    1900    1900      1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             150                0      150               150      120                   0      120                0
Storage Lanes                     1                0        0                 1        1                   0        1                0
Taper Length (ft)                25               25       25                25       25                  25       25               25
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      3458       0        0     3497     1583    1770         3450       0    1770      3505       0
Flt Permitted                 0.378                               0.612            0.478                        0.461
Satd. Flow (perm)               702     3458       0         0    2159     1555      879        3450       0      852     3505       0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                        Yes                          Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                        18                                 184                   25                         9
Link Speed (mph)                         30                         30                            30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      537                        288                           389                       292
Travel Time (s)                         12.2                       6.5                           8.8                       6.6
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)               7                28       28                 7         17               10       10               17
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                          4
Peak Hour Factor               0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92        0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            85      522        0       0      721      184          38      293        0     133      479        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No       No       No       No          No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right     Left     Left    Right        Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                        12                            12                        12
Link Offset(ft)                            0                         0                             0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                        16                            16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                      pm+pt              Perm     Perm                        pm+pt
Protected Phases                           2                 1        6                            4                 3       8
Permitted Phases                  2                          6                 6        4                            8
Minimum Split (s)              24.0      24.0             14.0     38.0     38.0     27.0        27.0             12.0     39.0
Total Split (s)                27.0      27.0     0.0     14.0     41.0     41.0     27.0        27.0     0.0     12.0     39.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              33.8%     33.8%    0.0%    17.5%    51.3%    51.3%    33.8%       33.8%    0.0%    15.0%    48.8%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              22.0      22.0              9.0     36.0     36.0     22.0        22.0              7.0     34.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0         4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0              1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0         1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0        -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0         3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                       Lag       Lag             Lead                         Lag         Lag            Lead
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Walk Time (s)                   7.0      7.0                                                                               7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            10.0     10.0                                                                              10.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5        5                                                                                 5
Act Effct Green (s)            24.0     24.0                       38.0     38.0        24.0    24.0             36.0     36.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.30     0.30                       0.48     0.48        0.30    0.30             0.45     0.45
v/c Ratio                      0.40     0.50                       0.60     0.22        0.14    0.28             0.27     0.30
Control Delay                  26.5     21.5                       10.4      1.3        22.3    20.3             14.7     14.4
Queue Delay                     0.0      0.0                        0.0      0.0         0.0     0.0              0.0      0.0
Total Delay                    26.5     21.5                       10.4      1.3        22.3    20.3             14.7     14.4
LOS                               C        C                          B        A           C       C                B        B

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                               Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                  Page 3
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
2: JAMES ST & STATE ST                                                                                                 10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL    NBT    NBR   SBL     SBT     SBR
Approach Delay                          22.2                       8.6                         20.6                 14.5
Approach LOS                              C                          A                           C                     B
Queue Length 50th (ft)           17      52                         58        1           9     36           26      51
Queue Length 95th (ft)           37      77                         92       m7          25     57           48      74
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 457                        208                         309                  212
Turn Bay Length (ft)           150                                           150         120                120
Base Capacity (vph)            211     1050                       1210       835         264   1053         487    1582
Starvation Cap Reductn            0       0                          0         0           0      0            0      0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0       0                          0         0           0      0            0      0
Storage Cap Reductn               0       0                          0         0           0      0            0      0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.40    0.50                       0.60      0.22        0.14   0.28         0.27   0.30
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 16 (20%), Referenced to phase 2:EBTL and 6:WBTL, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Pretimed
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.60
Intersection Signal Delay: 15.0                              Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 66.1%                      ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   2: JAMES ST & STATE ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                          Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                             Page 4
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
3: JAMES ST & TOWNSEND ST                                                                                                      10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL     NBT      NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     29      517      41        74     633       71      169         333       59       26      214      30
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900      1900    1900     1900     1900     1900    1900         1900     1900    1900      1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             150                0       150                0      105                    0      150                0
Storage Lanes                     1                0         1                0        1                    1        1                0
Taper Length (ft)                25               25        25               25       25                   25       25               25
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      1834       0     1770     1826        0    1770         1863     1583    1770      1817       0
Flt Permitted                 0.157                      0.270                     0.487                         0.377
Satd. Flow (perm)               292     1834       0       498    1826        0      889        1863     1521      695     1817       0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                        Yes                           Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                          8                        11                                     65                10
Link Speed (mph)                         30                         30                            30                         30
Link Distance (ft)                      489                        459                           200                        317
Travel Time (s)                         11.1                       10.4                          4.5                        7.2
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              14                19       19                14         20                12       12               20
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 2                          1
Peak Hour Factor               0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91        0.91    0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            32      613        0      81      774         0        186      366       65       29      268        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No       No       No       No          No       No      No        No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right     Left     Left    Right        Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                        12                            12                         12
Link Offset(ft)                            0                         0                             0                          0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                        16                            16                         16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                       Perm                Perm     Perm
Protected Phases                           2                          2                            4                          4
Permitted Phases                  2                          2                          4                    4        4
Minimum Split (s)              46.0      46.0             46.0     46.0              34.0        34.0     34.0     34.0     34.0
Total Split (s)                46.0      46.0     0.0     46.0     46.0      0.0     34.0        34.0     34.0     34.0     34.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              57.5%     57.5%    0.0%    57.5%    57.5%     0.0%    42.5%       42.5%    42.5%    42.5%    42.5%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              41.0      41.0             41.0     41.0              29.0        29.0     29.0     29.0     29.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0               4.0         4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0              1.0      1.0               1.0         1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0        -2.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0         3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Walk Time (s)                   7.0      7.0               7.0      7.0                  7.0     7.0      7.0      7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            13.0     13.0              13.0     13.0                 17.0    17.0     17.0     17.0     17.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5        5                 5        5                    5       5        5        5        5
Act Effct Green (s)            43.0     43.0              43.0     43.0                 31.0    31.0     31.0     31.0     31.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.54     0.54              0.54     0.54                 0.39    0.39     0.39     0.39     0.39
v/c Ratio                      0.20     0.62              0.30     0.78                 0.54    0.51     0.10     0.11     0.38
Control Delay                  12.8     17.5              10.5     13.3                 26.2    21.7      4.9     17.1     18.8
Queue Delay                     0.0      0.0               0.0      0.0                  0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Total Delay                    12.8     17.5              10.5     13.3                 26.2    21.7      4.9     17.1     18.8
LOS                               B        B                 B        B                    C       C        A        B        B

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                                Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                   Page 5
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
3: JAMES ST & TOWNSEND ST                                                                                               10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Approach Delay                          17.2                      13.0                         21.3                  18.7
Approach LOS                               B                         B                            C                     B
Queue Length 50th (ft)           6      198                 6       55                   48      93     0      6      61
Queue Length 95th (ft)         m19      274               m16      132                   93     146    16     18     103
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 409                        379                         120                   237
Turn Bay Length (ft)           150                        150                           105                   150
Base Capacity (vph)            157      989               268      987                  344    722    629    269     710
Starvation Cap Reductn            0        0                 0        0                    0      0      0      0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0        0                 0        0                    0      0      0      0       0
Storage Cap Reductn               0        0                 0        0                    0      0      0      0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.20     0.62              0.30     0.78                 0.54   0.51   0.10   0.11    0.38
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 70 (88%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Pretimed
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.78
Intersection Signal Delay: 17.0                               Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 83.8%                       ICU Level of Service E
Analysis Period (min) 15
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   3: JAMES ST & TOWNSEND ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                           Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                              Page 6
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
4: JAMES ST & MCBRIDE ST                                                                                                      10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     59      531      12        17     749       35       16          42      12       16       20      13
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900      1900    1900     1900     1900     1900     1900        1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             150                0       150                0        0                   0        0                0
Storage Lanes                     1                0         1                0        0                   0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)                25               25        25               25       25                  25       25               25
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      1854       0     1770     1843        0        0       1789        0        0    1759        0
Flt Permitted                 0.194                      0.347                                 0.944                     0.919
Satd. Flow (perm)               361     1854       0       636    1843        0           0     1709       0        0    1638        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                        Yes                          Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                          3                          6                           13                        14
Link Speed (mph)                         30                         30                            30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      459                        455                           383                       324
Travel Time (s)                         10.4                       10.3                          8.7                       7.4
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              24                22       22                24          1                4        4                1
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                          5
Peak Hour Factor               0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91        0.91    0.91    0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            65      597        0      19      861         0          0       77        0       0       54        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No       No       No       No          No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right     Left     Left    Right        Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                        12                             0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                         0                             0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                        16                            16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                       Perm                        Perm
Protected Phases                           2                          2                            4                         4
Permitted Phases                  2                          2                          4                            4
Minimum Split (s)              55.0      55.0             55.0     55.0              25.0        25.0             25.0     25.0
Total Split (s)                55.0      55.0     0.0     55.0     55.0      0.0     25.0        25.0     0.0     25.0     25.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              68.8%     68.8%    0.0%    68.8%    68.8%     0.0%    31.3%       31.3%    0.0%    31.3%    31.3%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              50.0      50.0             50.0     50.0              20.0        20.0             20.0     20.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0               4.0         4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0              1.0      1.0               1.0         1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0        -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0         3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Walk Time (s)                   7.0      7.0               7.0      7.0                  7.0     7.0              7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            10.0     10.0              10.0     10.0                 11.0    11.0             11.0     11.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5        5                 5        5                    5       5                5        5
Act Effct Green (s)            52.0     52.0              52.0     52.0                         22.0                      22.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.65     0.65              0.65     0.65                         0.28                      0.28
v/c Ratio                      0.28     0.50              0.05     0.72                         0.16                      0.12
Control Delay                   4.3      2.9               2.1      5.3                         19.9                      18.1
Queue Delay                     0.0      0.0               0.0      0.0                          0.0                       0.0
Total Delay                     4.3      2.9               2.1      5.4                         19.9                      18.1
LOS                               A        A                 A        A                            B                         B

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                               Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                  Page 7
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
4: JAMES ST & MCBRIDE ST                                                                                             10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Approach Delay                           3.1                       5.3                        19.9                18.1
Approach LOS                               A                         A                           B                   B
Queue Length 50th (ft)           2        17                1       42                         16                  10
Queue Length 95th (ft)          m4       31                m1       50                         39                  28
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 379                        375                        303                 244
Turn Bay Length (ft)           150                        150
Base Capacity (vph)            235     1206               413     1200                        479                 461
Starvation Cap Reductn            0       0                  0       5                           0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0       0                  0       0                           0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn               0       0                  0       0                           0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.28    0.50               0.05    0.72                        0.16                0.12
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 78 (98%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Pretimed
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.72
Intersection Signal Delay: 5.5                                Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 70.0%                       ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   4: JAMES ST & MCBRIDE ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                        Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                           Page 8
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
5: JAMES ST & CATHERINE ST                                                                                                    10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     14      502      43       126     718       22       47          79      57        2      127      36
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900      1900    1900     1900     1900     1900     1900        1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             150                0       150                0        0                   0        0                0
Storage Lanes                     1                0         1                0        0                   0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)                25               25        25               25       25                  25       25               25
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      1828       0     1770     1851        0        0       1727        0        0    1780        0
Flt Permitted                 0.235                      0.358                                 0.902                     0.997
Satd. Flow (perm)               438     1828       0       653    1851        0           0     1566       0        0    1776        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                        Yes                          Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                        11                           4                           28                        17
Link Speed (mph)                         30                         30                            30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      455                        884                           352                       335
Travel Time (s)                         10.3                       20.1                          8.0                       7.6
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              24                28       28                24         22               19       19                22
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                          2                           2                          2
Peak Hour Factor               0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94        0.94    0.94    0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            15      580        0     134      787         0          0      195        0       0      175        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No       No       No       No          No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right     Left     Left    Right        Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                        12                             0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                         0                             0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                        16                            16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                       Perm                        Perm
Protected Phases                           2                          2                            4                         4
Permitted Phases                  2                          2                          4                            4
Minimum Split (s)              55.0      55.0             55.0     55.0              25.0        25.0             25.0     25.0
Total Split (s)                55.0      55.0     0.0     55.0     55.0      0.0     25.0        25.0     0.0     25.0     25.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              68.8%     68.8%    0.0%    68.8%    68.8%     0.0%    31.3%       31.3%    0.0%    31.3%    31.3%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              50.0      50.0             50.0     50.0              20.0        20.0             20.0     20.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0               4.0         4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0              1.0      1.0               1.0         1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0        -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0         3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Walk Time (s)                   7.0      7.0               7.0      7.0                  7.0     7.0              7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            10.0     10.0              10.0     10.0                 12.0    12.0             12.0     12.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5        5                 5        5                    5       5                5        5
Act Effct Green (s)            52.0     52.0              52.0     52.0                         22.0                      22.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.65     0.65              0.65     0.65                         0.28                      0.28
v/c Ratio                      0.05     0.49              0.32     0.65                         0.43                      0.35
Control Delay                   4.0      4.2               4.8      7.7                         23.9                      23.3
Queue Delay                     0.0      0.0               0.0      0.0                          0.0                       0.0
Total Delay                     4.0      4.2               4.8      7.7                         23.9                      23.3
LOS                               A        A                 A        A                            C                         C

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                               Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                  Page 9
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
5: JAMES ST & CATHERINE ST                                                                                           10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Approach Delay                           4.2                        7.2                       23.9                23.3
Approach LOS                               A                          A                         C                   C
Queue Length 50th (ft)           0        19                9      124                         46                  43
Queue Length 95th (ft)          m3       67               m16      183                         87                  79
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 375                        804                        272                 255
Turn Bay Length (ft)           150                        150
Base Capacity (vph)            285     1192               424     1205                        451                 501
Starvation Cap Reductn            0       0                  0       0                           0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0       0                  0       0                           0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn               0       0                  0       0                           0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.05    0.49               0.32    0.65                        0.43                0.35
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 75 (94%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Pretimed
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.65
Intersection Signal Delay: 9.5                                Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 87.5%                       ICU Level of Service E
Analysis Period (min) 15
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   5: JAMES ST & CATHERINE ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                        Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                          Page 10
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                                                                         10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     30      478      53        23     814       64       34         268      53       38      252      18
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900      1900    1900     1900     1900     1900     1900        1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             150                0       150                0        0                   0        0                0
Storage Lanes                     1                0         1                0        0                   0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)                25               25        25               25       25                  25       25               25
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      1830       0     1770     1839        0        0       3408        0        0    3475        0
Flt Permitted                 0.199                      0.395                                 0.895                     0.860
Satd. Flow (perm)               370     1830       0       734    1839        0           0     3059       0        0    2997        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                        Yes                          Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                          8                         5                            23                         7
Link Speed (mph)                         30                         30                            30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      884                       1883                          1359                       423
Travel Time (s)                         20.1                      42.8                          30.9                       9.6
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              13                12       12                13         17               22       22               17
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 6                          1                           1
Peak Hour Factor               0.96     0.96     0.96     0.96     0.96     0.96        0.96    0.96    0.96     0.96     0.96     0.96
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            31      553        0      24      915         0          0      369        0       0      321        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No       No       No       No          No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right     Left     Left    Right        Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                        12                             0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                         0                             0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                        16                            16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                       Perm                        Perm
Protected Phases                           1                          1                            2                         2
Permitted Phases                  1                          1                            2                         2
Detector Phase                    1        1                 1        1                   2        2                2        2
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0               4.0         4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              31.0      31.0             31.0     31.0              21.0        21.0             21.0     21.0
Total Split (s)                31.0      31.0     0.0     31.0     31.0      0.0     21.0        21.0     0.0     21.0     21.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              38.8%     38.8%    0.0%    38.8%    38.8%     0.0%    26.3%       26.3%    0.0%    26.3%    26.3%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              26.0      26.0             26.0     26.0              16.0        16.0             16.0     16.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0               4.0         4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0              1.0      1.0               1.0         1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0        -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0         3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                      Lead      Lead             Lead     Lead                Lag         Lag              Lag      Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0       3.0              3.0      3.0                   3.0     3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Min     C-Min            C-Min    C-Min                  Max     Max              Max      Max
Act Effct Green (s)           56.0      56.0             56.0     56.0                          18.0                      18.0
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.70      0.70             0.70     0.70                          0.22                      0.22
v/c Ratio                     0.12      0.43             0.05     0.71                          0.52                      0.47
Control Delay                  4.3       5.1              2.0      4.9                          28.6                      29.0
Queue Delay                    0.0       0.0              0.0      0.0                           0.0                       0.0

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                               Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                 Page 11
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                                           10/7/2011



Lane Group                       ø3
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
Storage Length (ft)
Storage Lanes
Taper Length (ft)
Satd. Flow (prot)
Flt Permitted
Satd. Flow (perm)
Right Turn on Red
Satd. Flow (RTOR)
Link Speed (mph)
Link Distance (ft)
Travel Time (s)
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)
Peak Hour Factor
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
Enter Blocked Intersection
Lane Alignment
Median Width(ft)
Link Offset(ft)
Crosswalk Width(ft)
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor
Turn Type
Protected Phases                  3
Permitted Phases
Detector Phase
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0
Minimum Split (s)              28.0
Total Split (s)                28.0
Total Split (%)                35%
Maximum Green (s)              25.0
Yellow Time (s)                 3.0
All-Red Time (s)                0.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)
Total Lost Time (s)
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0
Recall Mode                   None
Act Effct Green (s)
Actuated g/C Ratio
v/c Ratio
Control Delay
Queue Delay

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                     Page 12
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                                                                10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Total Delay                     4.3      5.1              2.0      4.9                        28.6                29.0
LOS                               A        A                A        A                           C                  C
Approach Delay                           5.1                       4.8                        28.6                29.0
Approach LOS                               A                         A                           C                  C
Queue Length 50th (ft)           1        19                1       55                          54                 48
Queue Length 95th (ft)          m6      140                m2       61                          83                 75
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 804                       1803                        1279                343
Turn Bay Length (ft)           150                        150
Base Capacity (vph)            259     1283               514     1289                        706                 680
Starvation Cap Reductn            0       0                  0       0                           0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0       0                  0       0                           0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn               0       0                  0       0                           0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.12    0.43               0.05    0.71                        0.52                0.47
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 46 (58%), Referenced to phase 1:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.71
Intersection Signal Delay: 12.3                               Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 83.5%                       ICU Level of Service E
Analysis Period (min) 15
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   6: JAMES ST & LODI ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                        Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                          Page 13
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                                           10/7/2011



Lane Group                       ø3
Total Delay
LOS
Approach Delay
Approach LOS
Queue Length 50th (ft)
Queue Length 95th (ft)
Internal Link Dist (ft)
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
Starvation Cap Reductn
Spillback Cap Reductn
Storage Cap Reductn
Reduced v/c Ratio
Intersection Summary




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                     Page 14
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
7: JAMES ST & OAK ST                                                                                                          10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     78      424      67        47     750       31      110         173      98       28       88      41
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900      1900    1900     1900     1900     1900     1900        1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             150                0       150                0        0                   0        0                0
Storage Lanes                     1                0         1                0        0                   0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)                25               25        25               25       25                  25       25               25
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      1801       0     1770     1847        0        0       1750        0        0    1750        0
Flt Permitted                 0.180                      0.376                                 0.847                     0.893
Satd. Flow (perm)               335     1801       0       683    1847        0           0     1489       0        0    1574        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                        Yes                          Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                         17                         4                           24                        25
Link Speed (mph)                          30                        30                           30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      1883                      1028                          495                       602
Travel Time (s)                         42.8                      23.4                          11.3                      13.7
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              19                31       31                19         24               14       14                24
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 2                          1                           1                          1
Peak Hour Factor               0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94        0.94    0.94    0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            83      522        0      50      831         0          0      405        0       0      168        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No       No       No       No          No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right     Left     Left    Right        Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                        12                             0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                         0                             0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                        16                            16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                       Perm                        Perm
Protected Phases                           2                          2                            4                         4
Permitted Phases                  2                          2                            4                         4
Detector Phase                    2        2                 2        2                   4        4                4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0               4.0         4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              40.0      40.0             40.0     40.0              25.0        25.0             25.0     25.0
Total Split (s)                49.0      49.0     0.0     49.0     49.0      0.0     31.0        31.0     0.0     31.0     31.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              61.3%     61.3%    0.0%    61.3%    61.3%     0.0%    38.8%       38.8%    0.0%    38.8%    38.8%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              44.0      44.0             44.0     44.0              26.0        26.0             26.0     26.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0               4.0         4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0              1.0      1.0               1.0         1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0        -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0         3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                  3.0   3.0                  3.0        3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                C-Max C-Max                 None       None             None     None
Walk Time (s)                   7.0   7.0                  7.0   7.0                  7.0        7.0              7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)             9.0   9.0                  9.0   9.0                 13.0       13.0             13.0     13.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5     5                    5     5                    5          5                5        5
Act Effct Green (s)            48.7  48.7                 48.7  48.7                            25.3                      25.3
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.61  0.61                 0.61  0.61                            0.32                      0.32

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                               Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                 Page 15
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
7: JAMES ST & OAK ST                                                                                                 10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
v/c Ratio                      0.41    0.47              0.12     0.74                        0.83                0.33
Control Delay                  18.2    12.0               9.7     13.5                        39.2                18.6
Queue Delay                     0.0      0.0              0.0      0.0                         0.0                 0.0
Total Delay                    18.2    12.0               9.7     13.5                        39.2                18.6
LOS                               B        B                A        B                           D                   B
Approach Delay                         12.8                       13.3                        39.2                18.6
Approach LOS                               B                         B                           D                   B
Queue Length 50th (ft)          21      164                 6      116                         114                  34
Queue Length 95th (ft)         m60      237               m10      183                        #207                  67
Internal Link Dist (ft)                1803                        948                         415                522
Turn Bay Length (ft)           150                        150
Base Capacity (vph)            204     1102               415     1125                        537                 567
Starvation Cap Reductn            0       0                  0       0                           0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0       0                  0       0                           0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn               0       0                  0       0                           0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.41    0.47               0.12    0.74                        0.75                0.30
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 4 (5%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 65
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.83
Intersection Signal Delay: 18.7                              Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 90.7%                      ICU Level of Service E
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   7: JAMES ST & OAK ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                        Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                          Page 16
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
8: JAMES ST & DEWITT ST                                                                                                       10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     30      509      11        0      768      120        7           1       2      179        6      53
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900      1900    1900     1900     1900     1900     1900        1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             150                0      150                 0        0                   0        0                0
Storage Lanes                     1                0        1                 0        0                   0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)                25               25       25                25       25                  25       25               25
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      1855       0     1863     1807        0        0       1723        0        0    1728        0
Flt Permitted                 0.144                                                            0.853                     0.773
Satd. Flow (perm)               268     1855       0     1863     1807        0           0    1514        0        0    1310        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                        Yes                          Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                          3                        20                             2                       18
Link Speed (mph)                          30                        30                            30                       30
Link Distance (ft)                      1028                       271                           427                      658
Travel Time (s)                         23.4                       6.2                           9.7                      15.0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              22                16       16                22          8               37       37                8
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                          2
Peak Hour Factor               0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90        0.90    0.90    0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            33      578        0       0      986         0          0       11        0       0      265        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No       No       No       No          No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right     Left     Left    Right        Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                        12                             0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                         0                             0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                        16                            16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                       Perm                        Perm
Protected Phases                           2                          2                            4                         4
Permitted Phases                  2                          2                            4                         4
Detector Phase                    2        2                 2        2                   4        4                4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0               4.0         4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              40.0      40.0             40.0     40.0              25.0        25.0             25.0     25.0
Total Split (s)                55.0      55.0     0.0     55.0     55.0      0.0     25.0        25.0     0.0     25.0     25.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              68.8%     68.8%    0.0%    68.8%    68.8%     0.0%    31.3%       31.3%    0.0%    31.3%    31.3%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              50.0      50.0             50.0     50.0              20.0        20.0             20.0     20.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0               4.0         4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0              1.0      1.0               1.0         1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0        -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0         3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                  3.0   3.0                  3.0        3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                C-Max C-Max                 None       None             None     None
Walk Time (s)                   7.0   7.0                  7.0   7.0                  7.0        7.0              7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)             9.0   9.0                  9.0   9.0                 13.0       13.0             13.0     13.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5     5                    5     5                    5          5                5        5
Act Effct Green (s)            54.0  54.0                       54.0                            20.0                      20.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.68  0.68                       0.68                            0.25                      0.25

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                               Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                 Page 17
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
8: JAMES ST & DEWITT ST                                                                                              10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
v/c Ratio                      0.18     0.46                      0.80                        0.03               0.78
Control Delay                   6.3      4.6                      10.1                        19.8               42.6
Queue Delay                     0.0      0.1                       0.0                         0.0                 0.0
Total Delay                     6.3      4.7                      10.1                        19.8               42.6
LOS                               A        A                         B                           B                  D
Approach Delay                           4.8                      10.1                        19.8               42.6
Approach LOS                               A                         B                           B                  D
Queue Length 50th (ft)           1        18                        54                           2                 75
Queue Length 95th (ft)          m6        83                      #196                          10               #150
Internal Link Dist (ft)                  948                       191                        347                 578
Turn Bay Length (ft)           150
Base Capacity (vph)            181     1254                       1227                        418                 373
Starvation Cap Reductn            0       0                          0                           0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0      61                          0                           0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn               0       0                          0                           0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.18    0.48                       0.80                        0.03                0.71
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 3 (4%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 70
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.80
Intersection Signal Delay: 13.0                              Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 70.8%                      ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   8: JAMES ST & DEWITT ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                        Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                          Page 18
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
9: JAMES ST & SEDGEWICK ST                                                                      10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT       NBL     NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                   574      116        42     769       119      34
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900     1900     1900     1900     1900     1900
Storage Length (ft)                     150       150                 0       0
Storage Lanes                             0         1                 1       0
Taper Length (ft)                        25        25                25      25
Satd. Flow (prot)             1797        0     1770     1863     1728        0
Flt Permitted                                   0.267             0.962
Satd. Flow (perm)             1797        0       493    1863     1716        0
Right Turn on Red                       Yes                                 Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                28                                  17
Link Speed (mph)                 30                        30        30
Link Distance (ft)              271                      1437       521
Travel Time (s)                 6.2                      32.7      11.8
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                       22       22                 4        2
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                        2                                   1
Peak Hour Factor               0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)           758       0       46      845      168         0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No      No       No       No       No       No
Lane Alignment                  Left   Right     Left     Left     Left    Right
Median Width(ft)                 12                        12       12
Link Offset(ft)                   0                         0        0
Crosswalk Width(ft)              16                        16       16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                                       Perm
Protected Phases                  2                          2        4
Permitted Phases                                    2
Minimum Split (s)              42.0              42.0     42.0     23.0
Total Split (s)                57.0      0.0     57.0     57.0     23.0      0.0
Total Split (%)              71.3%     0.0%    71.3%    71.3%    28.8%     0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              52.0              52.0     52.0     18.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0               4.0      4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0               1.0      1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Walk Time (s)                   7.0               7.0      7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)             9.0               9.0      9.0     11.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5                 5        5        5
Act Effct Green (s)            54.0              54.0     54.0     20.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.68              0.68     0.68     0.25
v/c Ratio                      0.62              0.14     0.67     0.38
Control Delay                   8.5               2.4      6.8     25.2
Queue Delay                     0.1               0.0      0.0      0.0
Total Delay                     8.6               2.4      6.8     25.2
LOS                               A                 A        A        C

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                     Page 19
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
9: JAMES ST & SEDGEWICK ST                                                                      10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT       NBL     NBR
Approach Delay                  8.6                       6.5      25.2
Approach LOS                      A                         A        C
Queue Length 50th (ft)          82                 4      181       42
Queue Length 95th (ft)         210                m1        8       79
Internal Link Dist (ft)        191                       1357      441
Turn Bay Length (ft)                             150
Base Capacity (vph)           1222               333     1258       445
Starvation Cap Reductn          33                  0       0         0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0                  0       0         0
Storage Cap Reductn              0                  0       0         0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.64               0.14    0.67      0.38
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 6 (8%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 65
Control Type: Pretimed
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.67
Intersection Signal Delay: 9.1                               Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 62.1%                      ICU Level of Service B
Analysis Period (min) 15
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   9: JAMES ST & SEDGEWICK ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                     Page 20
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
10: JAMES ST & WILSON ST                                                                        10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT       NBL     NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                   596       12        16     789        22      29
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900     1900     1900     1900     1900     1900
Storage Length (ft)                       0       150                 0       0
Storage Lanes                             0         1                 1       0
Taper Length (ft)                        25        25                25      25
Satd. Flow (prot)             1856        0     1770     1863     1621        0
Flt Permitted                                   0.348             0.979
Satd. Flow (perm)             1856        0       646    1863     1621        0
Right Turn on Red                       Yes                                 Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                3                                   35
Link Speed (mph)                30                         30        30
Link Distance (ft)            1437                       1093       701
Travel Time (s)               32.7                       24.8      15.9
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                        7        7                         22
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                        1                                   1
Peak Hour Factor               0.84     0.84     0.84     0.84     0.84     0.84
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)           724       0       19      939       61         0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No      No       No       No       No       No
Lane Alignment                  Left   Right     Left     Left     Left    Right
Median Width(ft)                 12                        12       12
Link Offset(ft)                   0                         0        0
Crosswalk Width(ft)              16                        16       16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                                       Perm
Protected Phases                  2                          2        4
Permitted Phases                                    2
Detector Phase                    2                 2        2        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0               4.0      4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              40.0              40.0     40.0     25.0
Total Split (s)                55.0      0.0     55.0     55.0     25.0      0.0
Total Split (%)              68.8%     0.0%    68.8%    68.8%    31.3%     0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              50.0              50.0     50.0     20.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0               4.0      4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0               1.0      1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0               3.0   3.0         3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max             C-Max C-Max        None
Walk Time (s)                   7.0               7.0   7.0         7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            10.0              10.0  10.0        13.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5                 5     5           5
Act Effct Green (s)            68.2              68.2  68.2        11.2
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.85              0.85  0.85        0.14

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                     Page 21
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
10: JAMES ST & WILSON ST                                                                        10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT       NBL     NBR
v/c Ratio                     0.46              0.03      0.59     0.24
Control Delay                   3.9              1.4       4.3     17.0
Queue Delay                     0.0              0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Delay                     3.9              1.4       4.3     17.0
LOS                               A                A         A        B
Approach Delay                  3.9                        4.3     17.0
Approach LOS                      A                          A        B
Queue Length 50th (ft)            5                0         4        8
Queue Length 95th (ft)         205                m2     m236        23
Internal Link Dist (ft)       1357                       1013       621
Turn Bay Length (ft)                             150
Base Capacity (vph)           1584               551     1589       471
Starvation Cap Reductn           0                  0       0         0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0                  0       0         0
Storage Cap Reductn              0                  0       0         0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.46               0.03    0.59      0.13
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 52 (65%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 65
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.59
Intersection Signal Delay: 4.6                                Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 58.9%                       ICU Level of Service B
Analysis Period (min) 15
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   10: JAMES ST & WILSON ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                     Page 22
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
11: JAMES ST & TEALL AVE                                                                                                      10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR          NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    102      432       91       82      442      12      170         354      92        7      446     193
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900      1900     1900    1900      1900    1900     1900        1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             160               200      125                0        0                   0        0                0
Storage Lanes                     1                 1        1                0        0                   0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)                25                25       25               25       25                  25       25               25
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      1863     1583    1770      1854       0        0       3395        0        0    3289        0
Flt Permitted                 0.950                      0.950                                 0.564                     0.947
Satd. Flow (perm)             1757      1863     1528    1749      1854       0           0    1934        0        0    3118        0
Right Turn on Red                                 Yes                       Yes                          Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                                 101                 2                           29                        80
Link Speed (mph)                          30                         30                           30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      1093                       2248                          180                       188
Travel Time (s)                         24.8                       51.1                          4.1                       4.3
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              10                16       16                10         29                7        7               29
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                          1
Peak Hour Factor               0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90        0.90    0.90    0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)           113      480     101        91      504       0           0      684       0        0      718       0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No        No       No      No          No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right        Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                         12                            0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                            0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                           16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00        1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                      Prot             Perm      Prot                     pm+pt                        Perm
Protected Phases                  1        6                 5        2                7           4                         8
Permitted Phases                                    6                                  4                            8
Detector Phase                    1        6        6        5        2                7           4                8        8
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             5.0       5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0              5.0         5.0              5.0      5.0
Minimum Split (s)               9.5      22.0     22.0      9.5     22.0             10.0        22.0             22.0     22.0
Total Split (s)                11.0      36.0     36.0     10.0     35.0     0.0     10.0        34.0     0.0     24.0     24.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              13.8%     45.0%    45.0%    12.5%    43.8%    0.0%    12.5%       42.5%    0.0%    30.0%    30.0%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)               6.5      31.0     31.0      5.5     30.0              5.0        29.0             19.0     19.0
Yellow Time (s)                 3.5       4.0      4.0      3.5      4.0              4.0         4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0              1.0         1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0        -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             2.5       3.0      4.0      2.5      3.0     3.0      3.0         3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                      Lead        Lag      Lag    Lead       Lag            Lead                           Lag      Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0       3.0      3.0     3.0       3.0               3.0        3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                   None     C-Min    C-Min    None     C-Min             None       None             None     None
Walk Time (s)                            7.0      7.0               7.0                          7.0              7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)                     10.0     10.0              10.0                         10.0             10.0     10.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)                    5        5                 5                            5                5        5
Act Effct Green (s)             8.5     36.0     35.0      7.5     35.2                         30.0                      30.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.11     0.45     0.44     0.09     0.44                         0.38                      0.38

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                               Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                 Page 23
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
11: JAMES ST & TEALL AVE                                                                                                10/7/2011



Lane Group                      EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL     NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
v/c Ratio                       0.60    0.57      0.14    0.55      0.62                       0.99dl                0.59
Control Delay                   46.2    16.5       4.6    49.4      15.2                         42.3                19.7
Queue Delay                      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0                          0.0                 0.0
Total Delay                     46.2    16.5       4.6    49.4      15.2                         42.3                19.7
LOS                                D        B        A       D         B                           D                    B
Approach Delay                          19.7                        20.4                         42.3                19.7
Approach LOS                                B                          C                           D                    B
Queue Length 50th (ft)           37      116         9      33        58                         107                   86
Queue Length 95th (ft)          #79      219        16     m60     m144                         #183                 124
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 1013                       2168                          100                 108
Turn Bay Length (ft)            160                200      125
Base Capacity (vph)             188      837      725      166      816                         767                 1221
Starvation Cap Reductn             0        0        0        0        0                           0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn              0        0        0        0        0                           0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                0        0        0        0        0                           0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio               0.60     0.57     0.14     0.55     0.62                        0.89                0.59
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 75 (94%), Referenced to phase 2:WBT and 6:EBT, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 65
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.92
Intersection Signal Delay: 25.6                                 Intersection LOS: C
Intersection Capacity Utilization 80.3%                         ICU Level of Service D
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.
dl Defacto Left Lane. Recode with 1 though lane as a left lane.

Splits and Phases:   11: JAMES ST & TEALL AVE




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                           Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                             Page 24
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                                                                          10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR          NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     0       501       30       10      422       0       44           0      73      238       43      70
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900      1900     1900     1900     1900    1900     1900        1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)              0                150        0                0        0                   0        0                0
Storage Lanes                    0                  1        0                0        0                   0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)               25                 25       25               25       25                  25       25               25
Satd. Flow (prot)                0      1863     1583        0    1861        0        0       1652        0        0    1734        0
Flt Permitted                                                     0.986                        0.817                     0.713
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0     1863     1530        0    1836        0           0    1369        0        0    1277        0
Right Turn on Red                                 Yes                       Yes                          Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                                  37                                             90                        16
Link Speed (mph)                          30                         30                           30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      2248                        208                          239                       142
Travel Time (s)                         51.1                        4.7                          5.4                       3.2
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              28                13       13               28          14                1        1                14
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 4                                                                                 1
Peak Hour Factor               0.81     0.81     0.81     0.81     0.81     0.81        0.81    0.81    0.81     0.81     0.81     0.81
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)             0      619       37        0      533        0          0      144        0       0      433        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No        No       No      No          No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right        Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                         12                            0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                            0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                           16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turning Speed (mph)              15                 9       15                 9       15                  9       15                 9
Turn Type                                       Perm     Perm                       Perm                        Perm
Protected Phases                        124                        124                             3                         3
Permitted Phases                                 124      124                             3                         3
Detector Phase                          124      124      124      124                    3        3                3        3
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)                                                                   8.0         8.0              8.0      8.0
Minimum Split (s)                                                                    22.0        22.0             22.0     22.0
Total Split (s)                 0.0      51.0     51.0     51.0     51.0     0.0     29.0        29.0     0.0     29.0     29.0     0.0
Total Split (%)               0.0%     63.8%    63.8%    63.8%    63.8%    0.0%    36.3%       36.3%    0.0%    36.3%    36.3%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)                                                                    24.5        24.5             24.5     24.5
Yellow Time (s)                                                                       3.5         3.5              3.5      3.5
All-Red Time (s)                                                                      1.0         1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)            0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0         0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Total Lost Time (s)             4.0      4.5      4.5      4.5      4.5      4.0      4.5         4.5     4.0      4.5      4.5     4.0
Lead/Lag                                                                            Lead        Lead             Lead     Lead
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)                                                                 3.0        3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                                                                         None       None             None     None
Walk Time (s)                                                                         7.0        7.0              7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)                                                                  10.0       10.0             10.0     10.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)                                                                 5          5                5        5
Act Effct Green (s)                     46.5     46.5              46.5                         24.5                      24.5

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                               Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                 Page 25
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                                            10/7/2011



Lane Group                       ø1       ø2       ø4
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
Storage Length (ft)
Storage Lanes
Taper Length (ft)
Satd. Flow (prot)
Flt Permitted
Satd. Flow (perm)
Right Turn on Red
Satd. Flow (RTOR)
Link Speed (mph)
Link Distance (ft)
Travel Time (s)
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)
Peak Hour Factor
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
Enter Blocked Intersection
Lane Alignment
Median Width(ft)
Link Offset(ft)
Crosswalk Width(ft)
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor
Turning Speed (mph)
Turn Type
Protected Phases                  1        2        4
Permitted Phases
Detector Phase
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             5.0     10.0      5.0
Minimum Split (s)               9.5     22.0      9.5
Total Split (s)                12.0     29.0     10.0
Total Split (%)                15%      36%      13%
Maximum Green (s)               7.5     24.5      5.5
Yellow Time (s)                 3.5      3.5      3.5
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)
Total Lost Time (s)
Lead/Lag                      Lead       Lag     Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0      3.0     3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max       Min    None
Walk Time (s)                            7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)                     10.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)                    5
Act Effct Green (s)

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                     Page 26
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                                                                 10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL     SBT    SBR
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.58     0.58             0.58                        0.31                0.31
v/c Ratio                               0.57     0.04             0.50                        0.30                1.08
Control Delay                           17.9      8.9              8.4                        11.0                95.5
Queue Delay                              0.3      0.0              1.1                         0.0               118.8
Total Delay                             18.3      8.9              9.5                        11.0               214.3
LOS                                        B        A                A                           B                   F
Approach Delay                          17.7                       9.5                        11.0               214.3
Approach LOS                               B                         A                           B                   F
Queue Length 50th (ft)                  123        1                25                          13               ~163
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 m214       m8              m44                           35                #240
Internal Link Dist (ft)                2168                        128                        159                   62
Turn Bay Length (ft)                              150
Base Capacity (vph)                    1083       905             1067                        482                 402
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0         0              299                           0                  83
Spillback Cap Reductn                   121         0                 0                          6                   1
Storage Cap Reductn                       0         0                 0                          0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.64      0.04              0.69                       0.30                1.36
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 71 (89%), Referenced to phase 1:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 65
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 1.08
Intersection Signal Delay: 62.9                               Intersection LOS: E
Intersection Capacity Utilization 67.3%                       ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15
~ Volume exceeds capacity, queue is theoretically infinite.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   12: JAMES ST & Grant




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                        Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                          Page 27
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                                            10/7/2011



Lane Group                       ø1       ø2       ø4
Actuated g/C Ratio
v/c Ratio
Control Delay
Queue Delay
Total Delay
LOS
Approach Delay
Approach LOS
Queue Length 50th (ft)
Queue Length 95th (ft)
Internal Link Dist (ft)
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
Starvation Cap Reductn
Spillback Cap Reductn
Storage Cap Reductn
Reduced v/c Ratio
Intersection Summary




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                     Page 28
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
13: James S & Walgreens                                                                                                    10/7/2011



Lane Group                    EBL2       EBL     EBT      WBT      WBR       SBL     SBR       SEL     SER       ø3
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    60       102      650      422      258        6       10         0       0
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900     1900      1900     1900     1900    1900      1900      1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)                       75                        150        0        0         0       0
Storage Lanes                              1                          1        1        0         0       0
Taper Length (ft)                         25                         25       25       25        25      25
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0    1770      1863     1863     1583    1674         0         0       0
Flt Permitted                          0.312                               0.982
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0      581     1863     1863     1449    1548           0       0       0
Right Turn on Red                                                                                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)
Link Speed (mph)                                   30      30                  30                30
Link Distance (ft)                                208     618                 139               186
Travel Time (s)                                   4.7     14.0                3.2               4.2
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              28                                  28        28
Peak Hour Factor               0.81      0.81    0.81     0.81     0.81      0.81       0.81   0.81    0.81
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)             0      200      802      521     319        19        0         0       0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No       No       No      No        No       No        No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left     Left     Left   Right      Left    Right      Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                                   12       12                12                  0
Link Offset(ft)                                     0        0                 0                  0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                                16       16                16                 16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00   1.00       1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00       1.00   1.00    1.00
Turning Speed (mph)               15     15                           9        15          9     15       9
Turn Type                    custom custom                        Perm
Protected Phases                          1      123         2                  4                                 3
Permitted Phases                 23     23                            2
Detector Phase                   23       1      123         2        2         4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)                       5.0              10.0     10.0       5.0                              8.0
Minimum Split (s)                         9.5              22.0     22.0       9.5                             22.0
Total Split (s)                58.0      12.0     70.0     29.0     29.0     10.0      0.0       0.0     0.0   29.0
Total Split (%)              72.5%     15.0%    87.5%    36.3%    36.3%    12.5%     0.0%      0.0%    0.0%    36%
Maximum Green (s)                         7.5              24.5     24.5       5.5                             24.5
Yellow Time (s)                           3.5               3.5      3.5      3.5                               3.5
All-Red Time (s)                          1.0               1.0      1.0      1.0                               1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)            0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0    0.0      0.0
Total Lost Time (s)             4.5       4.5     4.5       4.5      4.5      4.5        4.0    4.0      4.0
Lead/Lag                                Lead                Lag      Lag      Lag                              Lead
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)                     3.0              3.0      3.0      3.0                                 3.0
Recall Mode                            C-Max               Min      Min     None                               None
Walk Time (s)                                              7.0      7.0                                          7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)                                       10.0     10.0                                         10.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)                                      5        5                                            5
Act Effct Green (s)                      61.0    65.5     24.5     24.5       5.5
Actuated g/C Ratio                       0.76    0.82     0.31     0.31      0.07

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                              Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                Page 29
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
13: James S & Walgreens                                                                                           10/7/2011



Lane Group                    EBL2      EBL      EBT     WBT      WBR       SBL        SBR   SEL   SER   ø3
v/c Ratio                               0.36     0.53    0.91     0.72      0.17
Control Delay                            3.0      3.8    50.1     35.6      38.6
Queue Delay                              0.1      0.9     0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Delay                              3.1      4.8    50.1     35.6      38.6
LOS                                        A        A       D        D         D
Approach Delay                                    4.4    44.6               38.6
Approach LOS                                        A       D                  D
Queue Length 50th (ft)                    5        85     169       96         6
Queue Length 95th (ft)                   m6      m47     #245      137        18
Internal Link Dist (ft)                           128     538                 59             106
Turn Bay Length (ft)                      75                        150
Base Capacity (vph)                     554     1525       571      444      115
Starvation Cap Reductn                    37     426         0        0        0
Spillback Cap Reductn                      0       0         0        0        0
Storage Cap Reductn                        0       0         0        0        0
Reduced v/c Ratio                       0.39    0.73      0.91     0.72     0.17
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 71 (89%), Referenced to phase 1:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 65
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 1.08
Intersection Signal Delay: 22.9                               Intersection LOS: C
Intersection Capacity Utilization 46.6%                       ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   13: James S & Walgreens




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                     Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                       Page 30
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
1: JAMES ST & OSWEGO BLVD                                                                                                     10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL      NBT     NBR      SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     0       543     121       34      596        1      329            0      20       5       7       11
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900      1900    1900     1900     1900     1900    1900          1900    1900    1900    1900     1900
Storage Length (ft)            150               150      150                 0        0                    0       0                0
Storage Lanes                    0                 0        0                 0        1                    0       0                0
Taper Length (ft)               25                25       25                25       25                   25      25               25
Satd. Flow (prot)                0      3409       0        0     3528        0    1681         1661        0       0    1688        0
Flt Permitted                                                     0.785            0.209        0.282                    0.875
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0     3409       0         0    2776        0      370          489       0       0    1488        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                        Yes                           Yes                      Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                         30                                                       13                       12
Link Speed (mph)                          30                        30                             30                       30
Link Distance (ft)                       225                       537                            242                      134
Travel Time (s)                          5.1                       12.2                           5.5                      3.0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)               7                35       35                 7           4               13      13                 4
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 5                          6                                                      1
Peak Hour Factor               0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95        0.95     0.95    0.95    0.95     0.95     0.95
Shared Lane Traffic (%)                                                                 47%
Lane Group Flow (vph)             0      699        0       0      664         0         183      184        0      0       24        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No       No       No       No           No       No      No      No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right     Left     Left    Right         Left     Left   Right    Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                        12                             12                       12
Link Offset(ft)                            0                         0                              0                        0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                        16                             16                       16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00        1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00
Turning Speed (mph)              15                 9       15                 9       15                   9       15                9
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                       Perm                         Perm
Protected Phases                           1                          1                             2                        3
Permitted Phases                  1                          1                             2                        3
Detector Phase                    1        1                 1        1                    2        2               3        3
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0               4.0          4.0             4.0     4.0
Minimum Split (s)              27.0      27.0             27.0     27.0              35.0         35.0            12.0    12.0
Total Split (s)                25.0      25.0     0.0     25.0     25.0      0.0     52.0         52.0     0.0     8.0     8.0      0.0
Total Split (%)              29.4%     29.4%    0.0%    29.4%    29.4%     0.0%    61.2%        61.2%    0.0%    9.4%    9.4%     0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              20.0      20.0             20.0     20.0              47.0         47.0             3.0     3.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0               4.0          4.0             4.0     4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0              1.0      1.0               1.0          1.0             1.0     1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0         -2.0    -1.0    -2.0    -2.0     -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0          3.0     3.0     3.0     3.0      3.0
Lead/Lag                      Lead      Lead             Lead     Lead                Lag          Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                  3.0   3.0                     3.0      3.0              3.0     3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                C-Max C-Max                     Max      Max             None    None
Walk Time (s)                   7.0   7.0                  7.0   7.0                     7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            15.0  15.0                 15.0  15.0                    12.0     12.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5     5                    5     5                       5        5
Act Effct Green (s)                  26.8                       26.8                    49.0     49.0                      5.0

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                                Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                   Page 1
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
1: JAMES ST & OSWEGO BLVD                                                                                             10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL    NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.32                      0.32                  0.58   0.58                0.06
v/c Ratio                               0.64                      0.76                  0.86   0.64                0.24
Control Delay                           27.9                      17.1                  54.1   24.0                32.3
Queue Delay                              0.0                       0.0                   0.0    0.0                 0.0
Total Delay                             27.9                      17.1                  54.1   24.0                32.3
LOS                                        C                         B                     D      C                   C
Approach Delay                          27.9                      17.1                         39.0                32.3
Approach LOS                               C                         B                            D                   C
Queue Length 50th (ft)                  102                         20                53         40                   4
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  162                       #186              #151       #121                  20
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 145                        457                          162                  54
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                    1096                        875                  213    287                   99
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0                           0                    0      0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn                     0                           0                    0      0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                       0                           0                    0      0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.64                        0.76                 0.86   0.64                0.24
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 29 (34%), Referenced to phase 1:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.86
Intersection Signal Delay: 26.2                               Intersection LOS: C
Intersection Capacity Utilization 64.2%                       ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

Splits and Phases:   1: JAMES ST & OSWEGO BLVD




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                         Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                            Page 2
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
2: JAMES ST & STATE ST                                                                                                        10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     62      490      16       97      568      349       38         972     124      119      211      25
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900      1900    1900     1900     1900     1900    1900         1900    1900    1900      1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             150                0      150               150      120                   0      120                0
Storage Lanes                     1                0        0                 1        1                   0        1                0
Taper Length (ft)                25               25       25                25       25                  25       25               25
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      3512       0        0     3514     1583    1770         3458       0    1770      3471       0
Flt Permitted                 0.374                               0.690            0.592                        0.121
Satd. Flow (perm)               692     3512       0         0    2435     1547    1087         3458       0      225     3471       0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                        Yes                          Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                          4                                228                   18                        21
Link Speed (mph)                         30                         30                            30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      537                        346                           389                       292
Travel Time (s)                         12.2                       7.9                           8.8                       6.6
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              13                46       46                13         14               46       46               14
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                          4                           4
Peak Hour Factor               0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91        0.91    0.91    0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            68      556        0       0      731      384          42     1204        0     131      259        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No       No       No       No          No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right     Left     Left    Right        Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                        12                            12                        12
Link Offset(ft)                            0                         0                             0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                        16                            16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                      pm+pt              Perm     Perm                        pm+pt
Protected Phases                           2                 1        6                            4                 3       8
Permitted Phases                  2                          6                 6        4                            8
Minimum Split (s)              24.0      24.0             12.0     38.0     38.0     33.0        33.0             12.0     45.0
Total Split (s)                28.0      28.0     0.0     12.0     40.0     40.0     33.0        33.0     0.0     12.0     45.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              32.9%     32.9%    0.0%    14.1%    47.1%    47.1%    38.8%       38.8%    0.0%    14.1%    52.9%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              23.0      23.0              7.0     35.0     35.0     28.0        28.0              7.0     40.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0         4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0              1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0         1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0        -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0         3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                       Lag       Lag             Lead                         Lag         Lag            Lead
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Walk Time (s)                   7.0      7.0                                                                               7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            10.0     10.0                                                                              10.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5        5                                                                                 5
Act Effct Green (s)            25.0     25.0                       37.0     37.0        30.0    30.0             42.0     42.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.29     0.29                       0.44     0.44        0.35    0.35             0.49     0.49
v/c Ratio                      0.33     0.54                       0.62     0.48        0.11    0.98             0.48     0.15
Control Delay                  27.2     21.6                       25.1     13.9        19.6    48.8             17.8     11.0
Queue Delay                     0.0      0.0                        0.0      0.0         0.0     0.0              0.0      0.0
Total Delay                    27.2     21.6                       25.1     13.9        19.6    48.8             17.8     11.0
LOS                               C        C                          C        B           B       D                B        B

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                               Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                  Page 3
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
2: JAMES ST & STATE ST                                                                                                 10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL    NBT    NBR   SBL     SBT     SBR
Approach Delay                          22.2                       21.3                        47.9                 13.3
Approach LOS                              C                          C                            D                    B
Queue Length 50th (ft)           6       24                        120       61          10     221          25      23
Queue Length 95th (ft)         m25       88                       m140      m82          26    #322          47      37
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 457                        266                          309                 212
Turn Bay Length (ft)           150                                           150         120                120
Base Capacity (vph)            204     1036                       1174       802         384   1232         275    1726
Starvation Cap Reductn            0       0                          0         0           0      0            0      0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0       0                          0         0           0      0            0      0
Storage Cap Reductn               0       0                          0         0           0      0            0      0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.33    0.54                       0.62      0.48        0.11   0.98         0.48   0.15
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 29 (34%), Referenced to phase 2:EBTL and 6:WBTL, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 85
Control Type: Pretimed
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.98
Intersection Signal Delay: 30.3                              Intersection LOS: C
Intersection Capacity Utilization 83.9%                      ICU Level of Service E
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   2: JAMES ST & STATE ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                          Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                             Page 4
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
3: JAMES ST & TOWNSEND ST                                                                                                      10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL     NBT      NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     35      616      82        42     705       47      266         486      112       42      291      43
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900      1900    1900     1900     1900     1900    1900         1900     1900    1900      1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             150                0       150                0      105                    0      150                0
Storage Lanes                     1                0         1                0        1                    1        1                0
Taper Length (ft)                25               25        25               25       25                   25       25               25
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      1813       0     1770     1838        0    1770         1863     1583    1770      1816       0
Flt Permitted                 0.095                      0.136                     0.417                         0.264
Satd. Flow (perm)               177     1813       0       253    1838        0      766        1863     1530      490     1816       0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                        Yes                           Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                         11                          6                                   119                11
Link Speed (mph)                          30                        30                            30                         30
Link Distance (ft)                       431                       459                           200                        317
Travel Time (s)                          9.8                       10.4                          4.5                        7.2
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              20                25       25                20         16                 8        8               16
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 2                          8
Peak Hour Factor               0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94        0.94    0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            37      742        0      45      800         0        283      517     119        45      356        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No       No       No       No          No       No      No        No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right     Left     Left    Right        Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                        12                            12                         12
Link Offset(ft)                            0                         0                             0                          0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                        16                            16                         16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                       Perm                Perm     Perm
Protected Phases                           2                          2                            4                          4
Permitted Phases                  2                          2                          4                    4        4
Minimum Split (s)              45.0      45.0             45.0     45.0              35.0        35.0     35.0     35.0     35.0
Total Split (s)                45.0      45.0     0.0     45.0     45.0      0.0     40.0        40.0     40.0     40.0     40.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              52.9%     52.9%    0.0%    52.9%    52.9%     0.0%    47.1%       47.1%    47.1%    47.1%    47.1%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              40.0      40.0             40.0     40.0              35.0        35.0     35.0     35.0     35.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0               4.0         4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0              1.0      1.0               1.0         1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0        -2.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0         3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Walk Time (s)                   7.0      7.0               7.0      7.0                  7.0     7.0      7.0      7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            13.0     13.0              13.0     13.0                 17.0    17.0     17.0     17.0     17.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5        5                 5        5                    5       5        5        5        5
Act Effct Green (s)            42.0     42.0              42.0     42.0                 37.0    37.0     37.0     37.0     37.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.49     0.49              0.49     0.49                 0.44    0.44     0.44     0.44     0.44
v/c Ratio                      0.43     0.82              0.36     0.88                 0.85    0.64     0.16     0.21     0.45
Control Delay                  19.8     16.0              15.3     19.6                 47.3    23.2      3.6     18.2     18.5
Queue Delay                     0.0      0.0               0.0      0.0                  0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Total Delay                    19.8     16.0              15.3     19.6                 47.3    23.2      3.6     18.2     18.5
LOS                               B        B                 B        B                    D       C        A        B        B

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                                Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                   Page 5
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
3: JAMES ST & TOWNSEND ST                                                                                               10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Approach Delay                          16.2                      19.4                         28.1                  18.5
Approach LOS                               B                         B                            C                     B
Queue Length 50th (ft)           3       69                 4       67                   89     142     0     10      85
Queue Length 95th (ft)          m6      m84                m9     #402                 #192    215     20     27     134
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 351                        379                         120                   237
Turn Bay Length (ft)           150                        150                           105                   150
Base Capacity (vph)              87      901              125      911                  333    811    733    213     797
Starvation Cap Reductn            0        0                 0        0                    0      0      0      0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0        0                 0        0                    0      0      0      0       0
Storage Cap Reductn               0        0                 0        0                    0      0      0      0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.43     0.82              0.36     0.88                 0.85   0.64   0.16   0.21    0.45
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 56 (66%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Pretimed
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.88
Intersection Signal Delay: 21.1                               Intersection LOS: C
Intersection Capacity Utilization 84.8%                       ICU Level of Service E
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   3: JAMES ST & TOWNSEND ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                           Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                              Page 6
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
4: JAMES ST & MCBRIDE ST                                                                                                      10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     55      695      20        13     720       43       19          65       7       70       78      55
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900      1900    1900     1900     1900     1900     1900        1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             150                0       150                0        0                   0        0                0
Storage Lanes                     1                0         1                0        0                   0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)                25               25        25               25       25                  25       25               25
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      1851       0     1770     1836        0        0       1818        0        0    1743        0
Flt Permitted                 0.209                      0.238                                 0.930                     0.880
Satd. Flow (perm)               389     1851       0       443    1836        0           0     1703       0        0    1550        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                        Yes                          Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                          4                          8                            5                        21
Link Speed (mph)                         30                         30                            30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      459                        455                           383                       324
Travel Time (s)                         10.4                       10.3                          8.7                       7.4
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              36                26       26                36         10               10       10               10
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 6                          5
Peak Hour Factor               0.89     0.89     0.89     0.89     0.89     0.89        0.89    0.89    0.89     0.89     0.89     0.89
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            62      803        0      15      857         0          0      102        0       0      229        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No       No       No       No          No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right     Left     Left    Right        Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                        12                             0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                         0                             0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                        16                            16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                       Perm                        Perm
Protected Phases                           2                          2                            4                         4
Permitted Phases                  2                          2                          4                            4
Minimum Split (s)              59.0      59.0             59.0     59.0              26.0        26.0             26.0     26.0
Total Split (s)                60.0      60.0     0.0     60.0     60.0      0.0     25.0        25.0     0.0     25.0     25.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              70.6%     70.6%    0.0%    70.6%    70.6%     0.0%    29.4%       29.4%    0.0%    29.4%    29.4%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              55.0      55.0             55.0     55.0              20.0        20.0             20.0     20.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0               4.0         4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0              1.0      1.0               1.0         1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0        -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0         3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Walk Time (s)                   7.0      7.0               7.0      7.0                  7.0     7.0              7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            10.0     10.0              10.0     10.0                 11.0    11.0             11.0     11.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5        5                 5        5                    5       5                5        5
Act Effct Green (s)            57.0     57.0              57.0     57.0                         22.0                      22.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.67     0.67              0.67     0.67                         0.26                      0.26
v/c Ratio                      0.24     0.65              0.05     0.69                         0.23                      0.55
Control Delay                   4.0      4.2               5.5     11.7                         25.3                      30.4
Queue Delay                     0.0      0.1               0.0      0.2                          0.0                       0.0
Total Delay                     4.0      4.4               5.5     11.9                         25.3                      30.4
LOS                               A        A                 A        B                            C                         C

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                               Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                  Page 7
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
4: JAMES ST & MCBRIDE ST                                                                                             10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Approach Delay                           4.4                       11.8                       25.3                30.4
Approach LOS                               A                          B                         C                   C
Queue Length 50th (ft)           2        33                2       148                        28                  65
Queue Length 95th (ft)          m5      m59                m3     m153                         55                 113
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 379                        375                        303                 244
Turn Bay Length (ft)           150                        150
Base Capacity (vph)            261     1243               297     1234                        444                 417
Starvation Cap Reductn            0      48                  0       7                           0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0       0                  0      54                           0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn               0       0                  0       0                           0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.24    0.67               0.05    0.73                        0.23                0.55
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 66 (78%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 85
Control Type: Pretimed
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.69
Intersection Signal Delay: 11.4                               Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 70.7%                       ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   4: JAMES ST & MCBRIDE ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                        Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                           Page 8
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
5: JAMES ST & CATHERINE ST                                                                                                    10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     33      696      43        71     598       28      136         214      68        7      136      42
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900      1900    1900     1900     1900     1900     1900        1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             150                0       150                0        0                   0        0                0
Storage Lanes                     1                0         1                0        0                   0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)                25               25        25               25       25                  25       25               25
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      1838       0     1770     1844        0        0       1763        0        0    1772        0
Flt Permitted                 0.273                      0.197                                 0.801                     0.984
Satd. Flow (perm)               509     1838       0       367    1844        0           0     1420       0        0    1745        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                        Yes                          Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                          6                          5                           13                        19
Link Speed (mph)                         30                         30                            30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      455                        884                           352                       335
Travel Time (s)                         10.3                       20.1                          8.0                       7.6
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              19                20       20                19         23               38       38                23
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 6                          8                                                      2
Peak Hour Factor               0.97     0.97     0.97     0.97     0.97     0.97        0.97    0.97    0.97     0.97     0.97     0.97
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            34      762        0      73      645         0          0      431        0       0      190        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No       No       No       No          No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right     Left     Left    Right        Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                        12                             0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                         0                             0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                        16                            16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                       Perm                        Perm
Protected Phases                           2                          2                            4                         4
Permitted Phases                  2                          2                          4                            4
Minimum Split (s)              50.0      50.0             50.0     50.0              26.0        26.0             26.0     26.0
Total Split (s)                52.0      52.0     0.0     52.0     52.0      0.0     33.0        33.0     0.0     33.0     33.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              61.2%     61.2%    0.0%    61.2%    61.2%     0.0%    38.8%       38.8%    0.0%    38.8%    38.8%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              47.0      47.0             47.0     47.0              28.0        28.0             28.0     28.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0               4.0         4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0              1.0      1.0               1.0         1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0        -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0         3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Walk Time (s)                   7.0      7.0               7.0      7.0                  7.0     7.0              7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            10.0     10.0              10.0     10.0                 12.0    12.0             12.0     12.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5        5                 5        5                    5       5                5        5
Act Effct Green (s)            49.0     49.0              49.0     49.0                         30.0                      30.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.58     0.58              0.58     0.58                         0.35                      0.35
v/c Ratio                      0.12     0.72              0.34     0.61                         0.85                      0.30
Control Delay                   6.2      9.9              19.0     18.1                         42.0                      19.5
Queue Delay                     0.0      0.1               0.0      0.0                          0.0                       0.0
Total Delay                     6.2     10.0              19.0     18.1                         42.0                      19.5
LOS                               A        A                 B        B                            D                         B

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                               Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                  Page 9
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
5: JAMES ST & CATHERINE ST                                                                                           10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Approach Delay                           9.8                       18.2                       42.0                19.5
Approach LOS                               A                          B                          D                   B
Queue Length 50th (ft)           2        52               15       141                        138                 44
Queue Length 95th (ft)          m5      153               m26     m220                        #253                 79
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 375                        804                         272                255
Turn Bay Length (ft)           150                        150
Base Capacity (vph)            293     1062               212     1065                        510                 628
Starvation Cap Reductn            0      16                  0       0                           0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0       0                  0       0                           0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn               0       0                  0       0                           0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.12    0.73               0.34    0.61                        0.85                0.30
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 68 (80%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Pretimed
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.85
Intersection Signal Delay: 20.0                               Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 95.9%                       ICU Level of Service F
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   5: JAMES ST & CATHERINE ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                        Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                          Page 10
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                                                                         10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     13      745      13        13     589       74       74         510     106       47      224      34
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900      1900    1900     1900     1900     1900     1900        1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             150                0       150                0        0                   0        0                0
Storage Lanes                     1                0         1                0        0                   0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)                25               25        25               25       25                  25       25               25
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      1856       0     1770     1825        0        0       3403        0        0    3430        0
Flt Permitted                 0.212                      0.145                                 0.842                     0.668
Satd. Flow (perm)               394     1856       0       270    1825        0           0     2874       0        0    2305        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                        Yes                          Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                          1                         8                            26                        17
Link Speed (mph)                         30                         30                            30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      884                       1883                          1359                       423
Travel Time (s)                         20.1                      42.8                          30.9                       9.6
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              20                14       14                20         23               32       32               23
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                          2                           1
Peak Hour Factor               0.85     0.85     0.85     0.85     0.85     0.85        0.85    0.85    0.85     0.85     0.85     0.85
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            15      891        0      15      780         0          0      812        0       0      359        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No       No       No       No          No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right     Left     Left    Right        Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                        12                             0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                         0                             0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                        16                            16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                       Perm                        Perm
Protected Phases                           1                          1                            2                         2
Permitted Phases                  1                          1                            2                         2
Detector Phase                    1        1                 1        1                   2        2                2        2
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0               4.0         4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              19.0      19.0             19.0     19.0              26.0        26.0             26.0     26.0
Total Split (s)                30.0      30.0     0.0     30.0     30.0      0.0     30.0        30.0     0.0     30.0     30.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              35.3%     35.3%    0.0%    35.3%    35.3%     0.0%    35.3%       35.3%    0.0%    35.3%    35.3%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              25.0      25.0             25.0     25.0              25.0        25.0             25.0     25.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0               4.0         4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0              1.0      1.0               1.0         1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0        -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0         3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                      Lead      Lead             Lead     Lead                Lag         Lag              Lag      Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0       3.0              3.0      3.0                   3.0     3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Min     C-Min            C-Min    C-Min                  Max     Max              Max      Max
Act Effct Green (s)           52.0      52.0             52.0     52.0                          27.0                      27.0
Actuated g/C Ratio            0.61      0.61             0.61     0.61                          0.32                      0.32
v/c Ratio                     0.06      0.78             0.09     0.70                          0.87                      0.48
Control Delay                  3.5       8.5              6.3     17.6                          38.5                      24.8
Queue Delay                    0.0       0.0              0.0      0.0                           0.0                       0.0

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                               Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                 Page 11
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                                           10/7/2011



Lane Group                       ø3
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
Storage Length (ft)
Storage Lanes
Taper Length (ft)
Satd. Flow (prot)
Flt Permitted
Satd. Flow (perm)
Right Turn on Red
Satd. Flow (RTOR)
Link Speed (mph)
Link Distance (ft)
Travel Time (s)
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)
Peak Hour Factor
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
Enter Blocked Intersection
Lane Alignment
Median Width(ft)
Link Offset(ft)
Crosswalk Width(ft)
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor
Turn Type
Protected Phases                  3
Permitted Phases
Detector Phase
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0
Minimum Split (s)              25.0
Total Split (s)                25.0
Total Split (%)                29%
Maximum Green (s)              22.0
Yellow Time (s)                 3.0
All-Red Time (s)                0.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)
Total Lost Time (s)
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0
Recall Mode                   None
Act Effct Green (s)
Actuated g/C Ratio
v/c Ratio
Control Delay
Queue Delay

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                     Page 12
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                                                                10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Total Delay                     3.5      8.5              6.3      17.6                       38.5                24.8
LOS                               A        A                A         B                          D                  C
Approach Delay                           8.4                      17.4                        38.5                24.8
Approach LOS                               A                          B                          D                  C
Queue Length 50th (ft)           1        52                2      266                         141                 52
Queue Length 95th (ft)          m1       71                m2       335                       #183                 74
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 804                       1803                        1279                343
Turn Bay Length (ft)           150                        150
Base Capacity (vph)            241     1136               165     1120                        931                 744
Starvation Cap Reductn            0       0                  0       0                           0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0       0                  0       0                           0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn               0       0                  0       0                           0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.06    0.78               0.09    0.70                        0.87                0.48
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 0 (0%), Referenced to phase 1:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.87
Intersection Signal Delay: 21.5                              Intersection LOS: C
Intersection Capacity Utilization 83.4%                      ICU Level of Service E
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   6: JAMES ST & LODI ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                        Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                          Page 13
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                                           10/7/2011



Lane Group                       ø3
Total Delay
LOS
Approach Delay
Approach LOS
Queue Length 50th (ft)
Queue Length 95th (ft)
Internal Link Dist (ft)
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
Starvation Cap Reductn
Spillback Cap Reductn
Storage Cap Reductn
Reduced v/c Ratio
Intersection Summary




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                     Page 14
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
7: JAMES ST & OAK ST                                                                                                          10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     30      826      42        66     538       25       74         109      53       30      169      64
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900      1900    1900     1900     1900     1900     1900        1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             150                0       150                0        0                   0        0                0
Storage Lanes                     1                0         1                0        0                   0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)                25               25        25               25       25                  25       25               25
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      1842       0     1770     1845        0        0       1757        0        0    1769        0
Flt Permitted                 0.338                      0.152                                 0.680                     0.939
Satd. Flow (perm)               625     1842       0       283    1845        0           0     1207       0        0    1667        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                        Yes                          Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                          6                         5                           18                        20
Link Speed (mph)                          30                        30                           30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      1883                      1028                          495                       602
Travel Time (s)                         42.8                      23.4                          11.3                      13.7
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              13                23       23                13         14               18       18               14
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 2                          5
Peak Hour Factor               0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90        0.90    0.90    0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            33      965        0      73      626         0          0      262        0       0      292        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No       No       No       No          No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right     Left     Left    Right        Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                        12                             0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                         0                             0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                        16                            16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                       Perm                        Perm
Protected Phases                           2                          2                            4                         4
Permitted Phases                  2                          2                            4                         4
Detector Phase                    2        2                 2        2                   4        4                4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0               4.0         4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              39.0      39.0             39.0     39.0              31.0        31.0             31.0     31.0
Total Split (s)                55.0      55.0     0.0     55.0     55.0      0.0     30.0        30.0     0.0     30.0     30.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              64.7%     64.7%    0.0%    64.7%    64.7%     0.0%    35.3%       35.3%    0.0%    35.3%    35.3%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              50.0      50.0             50.0     50.0              25.0        25.0             25.0     25.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0               4.0         4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0              1.0      1.0               1.0         1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0        -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0         3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                  3.0   3.0                  3.0        3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                C-Max C-Max                 None       None             None     None
Walk Time (s)                   7.0   7.0                  7.0   7.0                  7.0        7.0              7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)             9.0   9.0                  9.0   9.0                 13.0       13.0             13.0     13.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5     5                    5     5                    5          5                5        5
Act Effct Green (s)            57.1  57.1                 57.1  57.1                            21.9                      21.9
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.67  0.67                 0.67  0.67                            0.26                      0.26

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                               Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                 Page 15
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
7: JAMES ST & OAK ST                                                                                                 10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL   EBT         EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
v/c Ratio                      0.08 0.78                 0.38     0.50                        0.81                0.66
Control Delay                   4.2   9.6                17.0     11.6                        46.2                32.9
Queue Delay                     0.0   0.0                 0.0      0.0                         0.0                 0.0
Total Delay                     4.2   9.6                17.0     11.6                        46.2                32.9
LOS                               A     A                   B        B                           D                   C
Approach Delay                        9.4                         12.2                        46.2                32.9
Approach LOS                            A                            B                           D                   C
Queue Length 50th (ft)            2    83                  16      133                          82                  87
Queue Length 95th (ft)          m3 m#323                  m39      259                        135                 134
Internal Link Dist (ft)             1803                           948                        415                 522
Turn Bay Length (ft)           150                        150
Base Capacity (vph)            420  1240                  190     1242                        396                 543
Starvation Cap Reductn            0     0                    0       0                           0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0     0                    0       0                           0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn               0     0                    0       0                           0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.08 0.78                  0.38    0.50                        0.66                0.54
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 39 (46%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.81
Intersection Signal Delay: 17.6                               Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 87.9%                       ICU Level of Service E
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   7: JAMES ST & OAK ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                        Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                          Page 16
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
8: JAMES ST & DEWITT ST                                                                                                       10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     54      847       8         1     551      136       24           0       6      179        4      54
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900      1900    1900     1900     1900     1900     1900        1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             150                0       150                0        0                   0        0                0
Storage Lanes                     1                0         1                0        0                   0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)                25               25        25               25       25                  25       25               25
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      1860       0     1770     1786        0        0       1716        0        0    1728        0
Flt Permitted                 0.277                      0.181                                 0.789                     0.763
Satd. Flow (perm)               516     1860       0       337    1786        0           0     1402       0        0    1321        0
Right Turn on Red                                Yes                        Yes                          Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                          1                        31                             7                       17
Link Speed (mph)                          30                        30                            30                       30
Link Distance (ft)                      1028                       271                           427                      658
Travel Time (s)                         23.4                       6.2                           9.7                      15.0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              14                 4        4                14          4               22       22                 4
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 4                          2                                                      2
Peak Hour Factor               0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92        0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            59      930        0       1      747         0          0       33        0       0      258        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No       No       No       No          No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right     Left     Left    Right        Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                        12                             0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                         0                             0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                        16                            16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                       Perm                        Perm
Protected Phases                           2                          2                            4                         4
Permitted Phases                  2                          2                            4                         4
Detector Phase                    2        2                 2        2                   4        4                4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0               4.0         4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              45.0      45.0             45.0     45.0              25.0        25.0             25.0     25.0
Total Split (s)                59.0      59.0     0.0     59.0     59.0      0.0     26.0        26.0     0.0     26.0     26.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              69.4%     69.4%    0.0%    69.4%    69.4%     0.0%    30.6%       30.6%    0.0%    30.6%    30.6%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              54.0      54.0             54.0     54.0              21.0        21.0             21.0     21.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0               4.0         4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0              1.0      1.0               1.0         1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0        -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0         3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0   3.0                  3.0   3.0                  3.0        3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                C-Max C-Max                 None       None             None     None
Walk Time (s)                   7.0   7.0                  7.0   7.0                  7.0        7.0              7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)             9.0   9.0                  9.0   9.0                 13.0       13.0             13.0     13.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5     5                    5     5                    5          5                5        5
Act Effct Green (s)            58.3  58.3                 58.3  58.3                            20.7                      20.7
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.69  0.69                 0.69  0.69                            0.24                      0.24

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                               Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                 Page 17
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
8: JAMES ST & DEWITT ST                                                                                              10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
v/c Ratio                      0.17     0.73             0.00     0.60                        0.10               0.77
Control Delay                   5.0     15.1              5.0     11.2                        20.5               44.0
Queue Delay                     0.0      0.0              0.0      0.1                         0.0                 0.0
Total Delay                     5.0     15.1              5.0     11.3                        20.5               44.0
LOS                               A        B                A        B                           C                  D
Approach Delay                          14.5                      11.3                        20.5               44.0
Approach LOS                               B                         B                           C                  D
Queue Length 50th (ft)           8       328                0      164                           7                 79
Queue Length 95th (ft)          m8       433               m0      320                          22               #150
Internal Link Dist (ft)                  948                       191                        347                 578
Turn Bay Length (ft)           150                        150
Base Capacity (vph)            354     1277               231     1235                        384                 370
Starvation Cap Reductn            0       0                  0      53                           0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0       6                  0       0                           0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn               0       0                  0       0                           0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.17    0.73               0.00    0.63                        0.09                0.70
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 82 (96%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 70
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.77
Intersection Signal Delay: 17.2                               Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 66.4%                       ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   8: JAMES ST & DEWITT ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                        Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                          Page 18
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
9: JAMES ST & SEDGEWICK ST                                                                      10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT       NBL     NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                   880      152        29     585       103      30
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900     1900     1900     1900     1900     1900
Storage Length (ft)                     150       150                 0       0
Storage Lanes                             0         1                 1       0
Taper Length (ft)                        25        25                25      25
Satd. Flow (prot)             1807        0     1770     1863     1728        0
Flt Permitted                                   0.159             0.963
Satd. Flow (perm)             1807        0       296    1863     1684        0
Right Turn on Red                       Yes                                 Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                28                                  15
Link Speed (mph)                 30                        30        30
Link Distance (ft)              271                      1437       521
Travel Time (s)                 6.2                      32.7      11.8
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                       18       18                14        2
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                        2                                   1
Peak Hour Factor               0.98     0.98     0.98     0.98     0.98     0.98
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)         1053         0      30      597      136         0
Enter Blocked Intersection      No       No       No       No       No       No
Lane Alignment                 Left    Right     Left     Left     Left    Right
Median Width(ft)                12                         12       12
Link Offset(ft)                  0                          0        0
Crosswalk Width(ft)             16                         16       16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                                       Perm
Protected Phases                  2                          2        4
Permitted Phases                                    2
Minimum Split (s)              47.0              47.0     47.0     23.0
Total Split (s)                66.0      0.0     66.0     66.0     19.0      0.0
Total Split (%)              77.6%     0.0%    77.6%    77.6%    22.4%     0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              61.0              61.0     61.0     14.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0               4.0      4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0               1.0      1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Walk Time (s)                   7.0               7.0      7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)             9.0               9.0      9.0     11.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5                 5        5        5
Act Effct Green (s)            63.0              63.0     63.0     16.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.74              0.74     0.74     0.19
v/c Ratio                      0.78              0.14     0.43     0.40
Control Delay                   5.4               7.6      8.2     31.0
Queue Delay                     0.2               0.0      0.1      0.0
Total Delay                     5.6               7.6      8.2     31.0
LOS                               A                 A        A        C

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                     Page 19
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
9: JAMES ST & SEDGEWICK ST                                                                      10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT       NBL     NBR
Approach Delay                  5.6                        8.2     31.0
Approach LOS                      A                          A       C
Queue Length 50th (ft)          71                 3        82      39
Queue Length 95th (ft)         107               m18      218       75
Internal Link Dist (ft)        191                       1357      441
Turn Bay Length (ft)                             150
Base Capacity (vph)           1347               219     1381       337
Starvation Cap Reductn          33                  0       0         0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0                  0     100         0
Storage Cap Reductn              0                  0       0         0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.80               0.14    0.47      0.40
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 81 (95%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 70
Control Type: Pretimed
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.78
Intersection Signal Delay: 8.4                                Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 77.5%                       ICU Level of Service D
Analysis Period (min) 15
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   9: JAMES ST & SEDGEWICK ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                     Page 20
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
10: JAMES ST & WILSON ST                                                                        10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT       NBL     NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                   902        8        28     595        19      22
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900     1900     1900     1900     1900     1900
Storage Length (ft)                       0       150                 0       0
Storage Lanes                             0         1                 1       0
Taper Length (ft)                        25        25                25      25
Satd. Flow (prot)             1860        0     1770     1863     1689        0
Flt Permitted                                   0.245             0.977
Satd. Flow (perm)             1860        0       456    1863     1687        0
Right Turn on Red                       Yes                                 Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                1                                   24
Link Speed (mph)                30                         30        30
Link Distance (ft)            1437                       1093       701
Travel Time (s)               32.7                       24.8      15.9
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                       20       20                 1
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                        6
Peak Hour Factor               0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)           989       0       30      647       45         0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No      No       No       No       No       No
Lane Alignment                  Left   Right     Left     Left     Left    Right
Median Width(ft)                 12                        12       12
Link Offset(ft)                   0                         0        0
Crosswalk Width(ft)              16                        16       16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                                       Perm
Protected Phases                  2                          2        4
Permitted Phases                                    2
Detector Phase                    2                 2        2        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0               4.0      4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              45.0              45.0     45.0     25.0
Total Split (s)                65.0      0.0     65.0     65.0     20.0      0.0
Total Split (%)              76.5%     0.0%    76.5%    76.5%    23.5%     0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              60.0              60.0     60.0     15.0
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0               4.0      4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0               1.0      1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0               3.0   3.0         3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max             C-Max C-Max        None
Walk Time (s)                   7.0               7.0   7.0         7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)            10.0              10.0  10.0        13.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)           5                 5     5           5
Act Effct Green (s)            74.4              74.4  74.4        10.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.88              0.88  0.88        0.12

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                     Page 21
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
10: JAMES ST & WILSON ST                                                                        10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT       NBL     NBR
v/c Ratio                     0.61              0.08      0.40     0.20
Control Delay                   3.4              1.0       2.1     20.9
Queue Delay                     0.0              0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Delay                     3.4              1.0       2.1     20.9
LOS                               A                A         A        C
Approach Delay                  3.4                        2.1     20.9
Approach LOS                      A                          A        C
Queue Length 50th (ft)          47                 0         1        7
Queue Length 95th (ft)         117                m2     m145        25
Internal Link Dist (ft)       1357                       1013       621
Turn Bay Length (ft)                             150
Base Capacity (vph)           1628               399     1630       357
Starvation Cap Reductn           0                  0       0         0
Spillback Cap Reductn            0                  0       0         0
Storage Cap Reductn              0                  0       0         0
Reduced v/c Ratio             0.61               0.08    0.40      0.13
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 15 (18%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 70
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.61
Intersection Signal Delay: 3.3                                Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 58.0%                       ICU Level of Service B
Analysis Period (min) 15
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   10: JAMES ST & WILSON ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                     Page 22
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
11: JAMES ST & TEALL AVE                                                                                                      10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR          NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    238      510      176      185      378      34      125         478     101       25      524     120
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900      1900     1900    1900      1900    1900     1900        1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             160               200      125                0        0                   0        0                0
Storage Lanes                     1                 1        1                0        0                   0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)                25                25       25               25       25                  25       25               25
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      1863     1583    1770      1836       0        0       3418        0        0    3381        0
Flt Permitted                 0.950                      0.950                                 0.610                     0.908
Satd. Flow (perm)             1754      1863     1526    1750      1836       0           0    2104        0        0    3076        0
Right Turn on Red                                 Yes                       Yes                          Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                                 191                 6                           26                        28
Link Speed (mph)                          30                         30                           30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      1093                       2248                          180                       188
Travel Time (s)                         24.8                       51.1                          4.1                       4.3
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              11                16       16                11         29                2        2               29
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                          1
Peak Hour Factor               0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92        0.92    0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)           259      554     191       201      448       0           0      766       0        0      727       0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No        No       No      No          No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right        Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                         12                            0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                            0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                           16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00        1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                      Prot             Perm      Prot                     pm+pt                        Perm
Protected Phases                  1        6                 5        2                7           4                         8
Permitted Phases                                    6                                  4                            8
Detector Phase                    1        6        6        5        2                7           4                8        8
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             5.0       5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0              5.0         5.0              5.0      5.0
Minimum Split (s)               9.5      22.0     22.0      9.5     22.0             10.0        22.0             22.0     22.0
Total Split (s)                19.0      36.0     36.0     14.0     31.0     0.0     13.0        35.0     0.0     22.0     22.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              22.4%     42.4%    42.4%    16.5%    36.5%    0.0%    15.3%       41.2%    0.0%    25.9%    25.9%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)              14.5      31.0     31.0      9.5     26.0              8.0        30.0             17.0     17.0
Yellow Time (s)                 3.5       4.0      4.0      3.5      4.0              4.0         4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0              1.0         1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0     -2.0        -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             2.5       3.0      4.0      2.5      3.0     3.0      3.0         3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                      Lead        Lag      Lag    Lead       Lag            Lead                           Lag      Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)          3.0       3.0      3.0     3.0       3.0               3.0        3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                   None     C-Min    C-Min    None     C-Min             None       None             None     None
Walk Time (s)                            7.0      7.0               7.0                          7.0              7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)                     10.0     10.0              10.0                         10.0             10.0     10.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)                    5        5                 5                            5                5        5
Act Effct Green (s)            16.0     33.1     32.1     11.5     28.6                         31.9                      31.9
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.19     0.39     0.38     0.14     0.34                         0.38                      0.38

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                               Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                 Page 23
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
11: JAMES ST & TEALL AVE                                                                                             10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
v/c Ratio                      0.78    0.76      0.27    0.84      0.72                       0.95                0.62
Control Delay                  52.0    23.3       2.7    68.7      20.1                       48.2                23.5
Queue Delay                     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0                        0.0                 0.0
Total Delay                    52.0    23.3       2.7    68.7      20.1                       48.2                23.5
LOS                               D       C         A       E         C                          D                   C
Approach Delay                         26.8                        35.2                       48.2                23.5
Approach LOS                              C                           D                          D                   C
Queue Length 50th (ft)          86      120         2    79          57                        135                106
Queue Length 95th (ft)        #163     #242        20 m#140       m104                        #220                146
Internal Link Dist (ft)                1013                       2168                         100                108
Turn Bay Length (ft)           160                200      125
Base Capacity (vph)            344      725      695      239      622                        808                1172
Starvation Cap Reductn            0        0        0        0        0                          0                  0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0        0        0        0        0                          0                  0
Storage Cap Reductn               0        0        0        0        0                          0                  0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.75     0.76     0.27     0.84     0.72                       0.95               0.62
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 31 (36%), Referenced to phase 2:WBT and 6:EBT, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 70
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.95
Intersection Signal Delay: 33.0                               Intersection LOS: C
Intersection Capacity Utilization 90.0%                       ICU Level of Service E
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   11: JAMES ST & TEALL AVE




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                        Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                          Page 24
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                                                                          10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR          NBL     NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     0       574       62       14      470       0       42           0      77      329       72      85
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900      1900     1900     1900     1900    1900     1900        1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)              0                150        0                0        0                   0        0                0
Storage Lanes                    0                  1        0                0        0                   0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)               25                 25       25               25       25                  25       25               25
Satd. Flow (prot)                0      1863     1583        0    1861        0        0       1640        0        0    1714        0
Flt Permitted                                                     0.982                        0.852                     0.728
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0     1863     1522        0    1829        0           0    1421        0        0    1284        0
Right Turn on Red                                 Yes                       Yes                          Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                                  63                                             79                        12
Link Speed (mph)                          30                         30                           30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      2248                        208                          239                       142
Travel Time (s)                         51.1                        4.7                          5.4                       3.2
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              26                23       23                26         47                4        4                47
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                          6                                                      7
Peak Hour Factor               0.98     0.98     0.98     0.98     0.98     0.98        0.98    0.98    0.98     0.98     0.98     0.98
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)             0      586       63        0      494        0          0      122        0       0      496        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No        No       No      No          No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right        Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                         12                            0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                            0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                           16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turning Speed (mph)              15                 9       15                 9       15                  9       15                 9
Turn Type                                       Perm     Perm                       Perm                        Perm
Protected Phases                        124                        124                             3                         3
Permitted Phases                                 124      124                             3                         3
Detector Phase                          124      124      124      124                    3        3                3        3
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)                                                                   8.0         8.0              8.0      8.0
Minimum Split (s)                                                                    22.0        22.0             22.0     22.0
Total Split (s)                 0.0      57.0     57.0     57.0     57.0     0.0     28.0        28.0     0.0     28.0     28.0     0.0
Total Split (%)               0.0%     67.1%    67.1%    67.1%    67.1%    0.0%    32.9%       32.9%    0.0%    32.9%    32.9%    0.0%
Maximum Green (s)                                                                    23.5        23.5             23.5     23.5
Yellow Time (s)                                                                       3.5         3.5              3.5      3.5
All-Red Time (s)                                                                      1.0         1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)            0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0         0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Total Lost Time (s)             4.0      4.5      4.5      4.5      4.5      4.0      4.5         4.5     4.0      4.5      4.5     4.0
Lead/Lag                                                                            Lead        Lead             Lead     Lead
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)                                                                 3.0        3.0              3.0      3.0
Recall Mode                                                                         None       None             None     None
Walk Time (s)                                                                         7.0        7.0              7.0      7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)                                                                  10.0       10.0             10.0     10.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)                                                                 5          5                5        5
Act Effct Green (s)                     52.5     52.5              52.5                         23.5                      23.5

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                               Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                 Page 25
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                                            10/7/2011



Lane Group                       ø1       ø2       ø4
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
Storage Length (ft)
Storage Lanes
Taper Length (ft)
Satd. Flow (prot)
Flt Permitted
Satd. Flow (perm)
Right Turn on Red
Satd. Flow (RTOR)
Link Speed (mph)
Link Distance (ft)
Travel Time (s)
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)
Peak Hour Factor
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
Enter Blocked Intersection
Lane Alignment
Median Width(ft)
Link Offset(ft)
Crosswalk Width(ft)
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor
Turning Speed (mph)
Turn Type
Protected Phases                  1        2        4
Permitted Phases
Detector Phase
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             5.0     10.0      5.0
Minimum Split (s)               9.5     22.0      9.5
Total Split (s)                12.0     33.0     12.0
Total Split (%)                14%      39%      14%
Maximum Green (s)               7.5     28.5      7.5
Yellow Time (s)                 3.5      3.5      3.5
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)
Total Lost Time (s)
Lead/Lag                      Lead       Lag     Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)           3.0      3.0     3.0
Recall Mode                  C-Max       Min    None
Walk Time (s)                            7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)                     10.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)                    5
Act Effct Green (s)

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                     Page 26
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                                                                 10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR     WBL      WBT      WBR          NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL     SBT    SBR
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.62     0.62             0.62                        0.28                0.28
v/c Ratio                               0.51     0.07             0.44                        0.27                1.36
Control Delay                           11.4      4.7              3.9                        11.9               207.6
Queue Delay                              0.1      0.0              0.7                         0.0               101.4
Total Delay                             11.5      4.7              4.6                        11.9               309.0
LOS                                        B        A                A                           B                   F
Approach Delay                          10.8                       4.6                        11.9               309.0
Approach LOS                               B                         A                           B                   F
Queue Length 50th (ft)                    87       1                11                          12               ~240
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 m164       m5                42                          40                #369
Internal Link Dist (ft)                2168                        128                        159                   62
Turn Bay Length (ft)                              150
Base Capacity (vph)                    1151       964             1130                        450                 364
Starvation Cap Reductn                    0         0              320                           0                  52
Spillback Cap Reductn                    57         0                 0                          2                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                       0         0                 0                          0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                      0.54      0.07              0.61                       0.27                1.59
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 35 (41%), Referenced to phase 1:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 1.36
Intersection Signal Delay: 93.1                               Intersection LOS: F
Intersection Capacity Utilization 78.0%                       ICU Level of Service D
Analysis Period (min) 15
~ Volume exceeds capacity, queue is theoretically infinite.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   12: JAMES ST & Grant




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                        Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                          Page 27
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                                            10/7/2011



Lane Group                       ø1       ø2       ø4
Actuated g/C Ratio
v/c Ratio
Control Delay
Queue Delay
Total Delay
LOS
Approach Delay
Approach LOS
Queue Length 50th (ft)
Queue Length 95th (ft)
Internal Link Dist (ft)
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
Starvation Cap Reductn
Spillback Cap Reductn
Storage Cap Reductn
Reduced v/c Ratio
Intersection Summary




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                     Page 28
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
13: James S & Walgreens                                                                                                    10/7/2011



Lane Group                    EBL2       EBL     EBT      WBT      WBR     WBR2         SBL    SBR     SBR2    SEL     SER       ø3
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    91       109      780      452      386      10       38         32      12       0       0
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900     1900      1900     1900     1900    1900    1900        1900    1900    1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)                       75                        150                0          0               0       0
Storage Lanes                              1                          1                1          0               0       0
Taper Length (ft)                         25                         25               25         25              25      25
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0    1770      1863     1863     1583        0   1689           0       0       0       0
Flt Permitted                          0.366                                       0.977
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0      669     1863     1863     1332       0    1573           0       0       0       0
Right Turn on Red                                                           Yes                         Yes             Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                                                     2                   8
Link Speed (mph)                                   30      30                            30                      30
Link Distance (ft)                                208     618                           139                     186
Travel Time (s)                                   4.7     14.0                          3.2                     4.2
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              26                                  26       26         26
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                                   6        6
Peak Hour Factor               0.98      0.98    0.98     0.98     0.98     0.98        0.98   0.98    0.98    0.98    0.98
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)             0      204      796      461     404         0         84        0       0      0       0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No       No       No      No       No          No      No      No      No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left     Left     Left   Right    Right        Left   Right   Right    Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                                   12       12                           12                       0
Link Offset(ft)                                     0        0                            0                       0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                                16       16                           16                      16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00   1.00       1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00        1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Turning Speed (mph)               15     15                           9        9          15      9       9      15       9
Turn Type                    custom custom                        Perm
Protected Phases                          1      123         2                            4                                       3
Permitted Phases                 23     23                            2
Detector Phase                   23       1      123         2        2                   4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)                       5.0              10.0     10.0              5.0                                        8.0
Minimum Split (s)                         9.5              22.0     22.0              9.5                                       22.0
Total Split (s)                61.0      12.0     73.0     33.0     33.0     0.0     12.0        0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    28.0
Total Split (%)              71.8%     14.1%    85.9%    38.8%    38.8%    0.0%    14.1%       0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%     33%
Maximum Green (s)                         7.5              28.5     28.5              7.5                                       23.5
Yellow Time (s)                           3.5               3.5      3.5              3.5                                        3.5
All-Red Time (s)                          1.0               1.0      1.0              1.0                                        1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)            0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0        0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0
Total Lost Time (s)             4.5       4.5     4.5       4.5      4.5     4.0      4.5        4.0     4.0    4.0      4.0
Lead/Lag                                Lead                Lag      Lag              Lag                                      Lead
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Vehicle Extension (s)                     3.0              3.0      3.0               3.0                                        3.0
Recall Mode                            C-Max               Min      Min             None                                       None
Walk Time (s)                                              7.0      7.0                                                          7.0
Flash Dont Walk (s)                                       10.0     10.0                                                         10.0
Pedestrian Calls (#/hr)                                      5        5                                                            5
Act Effct Green (s)                      64.0    68.5     28.5     28.5                  7.5

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                             Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                               Page 29
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
13: James S & Walgreens                                                                                               10/7/2011



Lane Group                    EBL2      EBL      EBT     WBT      WBR     WBR2          SBL    SBR   SBR2   SEL    SER       ø3
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.75     0.81    0.34     0.34                  0.09
v/c Ratio                               0.34     0.53    0.74     0.90                  0.54
Control Delay                            2.9      4.2    33.4     52.9                  47.1
Queue Delay                              0.2      1.0     0.0      0.2                   0.0
Total Delay                              3.1      5.1    33.4     53.1                  47.1
LOS                                        A        A       C        D                     D
Approach Delay                                    4.7    42.6                           47.1
Approach LOS                                        A       D                              D
Queue Length 50th (ft)                   11       105     146      138                    27
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  m13      m93      223     #256                   #63
Internal Link Dist (ft)                           128     538                             59                106
Turn Bay Length (ft)                      75                        150
Base Capacity (vph)                     601     1501       625      448                 156
Starvation Cap Reductn                    85     418         0        0                    0
Spillback Cap Reductn                      0       0         0        1                    0
Storage Cap Reductn                        0       0         0        0                    0
Reduced v/c Ratio                       0.40    0.73      0.74     0.90                 0.54
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 35 (41%), Referenced to phase 1:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 1.36
Intersection Signal Delay: 23.4                               Intersection LOS: C
Intersection Capacity Utilization 53.4%                       ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   13: James S & Walgreens




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                         Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                           Page 30
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
1: JAMES ST & OSWEGO BLVD                                                                                                    10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR       NBL       NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     12      551      206       89      465        6      166         1       7        0        0       0
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900    1900      1900     1900    1900      1900    1900      1900     1900     1900     1900    1900
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0    3364         0        0    3503         0    1681      1668        0        0     1863       0
Flt Permitted                          0.945                      0.722             0.950     0.950
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0    3183         0        0    2548         0    1681      1655        0        0     1863       0
Right Turn on Red                                 Yes                        Yes                        Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                         81                          2                           6
Link Speed (mph)                          30                        30                           30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                       170                       537                          242                       134
Travel Time (s)                          3.9                       12.2                         5.5                       3.0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)               2                19       19                 2         14              23       23               14
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                          4                          1
Peak Hour Factor               0.89     0.89     0.89     0.89     0.89     0.89     0.89      0.89    0.89     0.89     0.89     0.89
Shared Lane Traffic (%)                                                              47%
Lane Group Flow (vph)             0      863        0        0      629        0       99        97        0       0        0       0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No        No       No      No        No        No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right      Left      Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                         12                          12                        12
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                           0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                          16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turning Speed (mph)              15                 9       15                 9       15                 9       15                 9
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                       Perm                       Perm
Protected Phases                           1                          1                           2                         3
Permitted Phases                  1                          1                            2                        3
Detector Phase                    1        1                 1        1                   2       2                3        3
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0               4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              37.0      37.0              37.0     37.0              25.0      25.0             18.0     18.0
Total Split (s)                37.0      37.0      0.0     37.0     37.0      0.0     25.0      25.0     0.0     18.0     18.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              46.3%     46.3%     0.0%    46.3%    46.3%     0.0%    31.3%     31.3%    0.0%    22.5%    22.5%    0.0%
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0               4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0               1.0      1.0               1.0       1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0      -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                      Lead      Lead              Lead     Lead                Lag       Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                 C-Max C-Max                 Max       Max             None     None
Act Effct Green (s)                  52.0                        52.0                22.0      22.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                   0.65                        0.65                0.28      0.28
v/c Ratio                            0.41                        0.38                0.21      0.21
Control Delay                         6.7                         2.1                23.9      22.4
Queue Delay                           0.0                         0.0                 0.0       0.0
Total Delay                           6.7                         2.1                23.9      22.4
LOS                                     A                           A                   C         C
Approach Delay                        6.7                         2.1                          23.2
Approach LOS                            A                           A                             C

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hou - Coordination Alternative                             Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                 Page 1
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
1: JAMES ST & OSWEGO BLVD                                                                                            10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR         NBL    NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Queue Length 50th (ft)                   57                           9                 27     25
Queue Length 95th (ft)                   78                          12                 53     51
Internal Link Dist (ft)                  90                         457                       162                   54
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                     2097                       1657                462    459
Starvation Cap Reductn                     0                          0                   0      0
Spillback Cap Reductn                      0                          0                   0      0
Storage Cap Reductn                        0                          0                   0      0
Reduced v/c Ratio                       0.41                       0.38                0.21   0.21
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 17 (21%), Referenced to phase 1:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.41
Intersection Signal Delay: 6.9                                Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 66.8%                       ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   1: JAMES ST & OSWEGO BLVD




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hou - Coordination Alternative                       Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                           Page 2
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
2: JAMES ST & STATE ST                                                                                                         10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR      NBL         NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     78      425       55      160      503      169       35         230      40      122      419      22
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900      1900     1900     1900     1900     1900    1900         1900    1900    1900      1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             150                 0        0               150      120                   0      120                0
Storage Lanes                     1                 0        0                 1        1                   0        1                0
Taper Length (ft)                25                25       25                25       25                  25       25               25
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      3458        0        0    3497      1583    1770         3450       0    1770      3505       0
Flt Permitted                 0.378                               0.589             0.478                        0.467
Satd. Flow (perm)               702     3458        0        0    2078      1554      879        3450       0      863     3505       0
Right Turn on Red                                 Yes                        Yes                          Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                        17                                  184                   25                         9
Link Speed (mph)                         30                         30                             30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      537                        777                            389                       292
Travel Time (s)                         12.2                       17.7                           8.8                       6.6
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)               7                28       28                 7          17               10       10               17
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                          4
Peak Hour Factor               0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92        0.92    0.92     0.92     0.92     0.92
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)            85      522        0        0      721     184           38      293        0     133      479        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No        No       No      No           No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right         Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                         12                            12                        12
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                             0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                            16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00        1.00    1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       pm+pt             Perm     Perm                         pm+pt
Protected Phases                           2                  1       6                             4                 3       8
Permitted Phases                  2                           6                 6        4                            8
Minimum Split (s)              24.0      24.0              14.0     38.0     38.0     28.0        28.0             14.0     42.0
Total Split (s)                24.0      24.0      0.0     14.0     38.0     38.0     28.0        28.0     0.0     14.0     42.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              30.0%     30.0%     0.0%    17.5%    47.5%    47.5%    35.0%       35.0%    0.0%    17.5%    52.5%    0.0%
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0         4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0               1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0         1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0        -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0         3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                       Lag       Lag              Lead                         Lag         Lag            Lead
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Act Effct Green (s)            21.0     21.0                       35.0     35.0     25.0        25.0             39.0     39.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.26     0.26                       0.44     0.44     0.31        0.31             0.49     0.49
v/c Ratio                      0.46     0.57                       0.65     0.23     0.14        0.27             0.24     0.28
Control Delay                  28.8     22.5                       15.4      3.4     21.5        19.6             12.7     12.5
Queue Delay                     0.0      0.0                        0.0      0.0      0.0         0.0              0.0      0.0
Total Delay                    28.8     22.5                       15.4      3.4     21.5        19.6             12.7     12.5
LOS                               C        C                          B        A        C           B                B        B
Approach Delay                          23.4                       13.0                          19.8                      12.5
Approach LOS                               C                          B                             B                         B
Queue Length 50th (ft)           16       50                         53        1           9       35               24       47
Queue Length 95th (ft)           32       67                       107        25          25       56               45       68

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hou - Coordination Alternative                               Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                   Page 3
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
2: JAMES ST & STATE ST                                                                                              10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR       NBL    NBT    NBR   SBL     SBT     SBR
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 457                         697                     309                  212
Turn Bay Length (ft)           150                                           150      120                120
Base Capacity (vph)            184      920                        1104      783      275   1095         545    1713
Starvation Cap Reductn            0        0                          0        0        0      0            0      0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0        0                          0        0        0      0            0      0
Storage Cap Reductn               0        0                          0        0        0      0            0      0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.46     0.57                       0.65     0.23     0.14   0.27         0.24   0.28
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 71 (89%), Referenced to phase 2:EBTL and 6:WBTL, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Pretimed
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.65
Intersection Signal Delay: 16.4                             Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 66.1%                     ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   2: JAMES ST & STATE ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hou - Coordination Alternative                      Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                          Page 4
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
3: JAMES ST & TOWNSEND ST                                                                                                       10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR       NBL         NBT      NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     29      517       41       74      633       71      169         333       59       26      214      30
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900     1900     1900     1900     1900     1900    1900         1900     1900    1900      1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)               0                 0        0                 0      105                    0      150                0
Storage Lanes                     0                 0        0                 0        1                    1        1                0
Taper Length (ft)                25                25       25                25       25                   25       25               25
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0    3483         0        0    3457         0    1770         1863     1583    1770      1822       0
Flt Permitted                          0.888                      0.827             0.487                         0.377
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0    3098         0        0    2870         0      896        1863     1546      698     1822       0
Right Turn on Red                                 Yes                        Yes                           Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                        15                         20                                      65                10
Link Speed (mph)                         30                         30                             30                         30
Link Distance (ft)                      777                        459                            200                        317
Travel Time (s)                         17.7                       10.4                           4.5                        7.2
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              14                19       19                14          20                12       12               20
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 2                          1
Peak Hour Factor               0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91        0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)             0      645        0        0      855        0         186      366       65       29      268        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No        No       No      No           No       No      No        No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right         Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                           0                          0                            12                         12
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                             0                          0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                            16                         16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00        1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                       Perm                 Perm     Perm
Protected Phases                           2                          2                             4                          4
Permitted Phases                  2                           2                          4                    4        4
Minimum Split (s)              46.0      46.0              46.0     46.0              34.0        34.0     34.0     34.0     34.0
Total Split (s)                46.0      46.0      0.0     46.0     46.0      0.0     34.0        34.0     34.0     34.0     34.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              57.5%     57.5%     0.0%    57.5%    57.5%     0.0%    42.5%       42.5%    42.5%    42.5%    42.5%    0.0%
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0               4.0         4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0               1.0      1.0               1.0         1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0        -2.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0         3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Act Effct Green (s)                     43.0                       43.0              31.0        31.0     31.0     31.0     31.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.54                       0.54              0.39        0.39     0.39     0.39     0.39
v/c Ratio                               0.39                       0.55              0.54        0.51     0.10     0.11     0.38
Control Delay                           20.3                        4.1              25.9        21.7      4.9     17.1     18.8
Queue Delay                              0.0                        0.0               0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Total Delay                             20.3                        4.1              25.9        21.7      4.9     17.1     18.8
LOS                                        C                          A                 C           C        A        B        B
Approach Delay                          20.3                        4.1                          21.2                       18.6
Approach LOS                               C                          A                             C                          B
Queue Length 50th (ft)                    84                         13                   48       93        0        6       61
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  125                          35                   93      146       16       18      103

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hou - Coordination Alternative                                Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                    Page 5
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
3: JAMES ST & TOWNSEND ST                                                                                              10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR         NBL    NBT    NBR    SBL     SBT     SBR
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 697                         379                       120                   237
Turn Bay Length (ft)                                                                   105                   150
Base Capacity (vph)                     1672                       1552                347    722    639    270     712
Starvation Cap Reductn                     0                          0                   0      0      0      0       0
Spillback Cap Reductn                      0                          0                   0      0      0      0       0
Storage Cap Reductn                        0                          0                   0      0      0      0       0
Reduced v/c Ratio                       0.39                       0.55                0.54   0.51   0.10   0.11    0.38
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 72 (90%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Pretimed
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.55
Intersection Signal Delay: 14.6                               Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 81.4%                       ICU Level of Service D
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   3: JAMES ST & TOWNSEND ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hou - Coordination Alternative                         Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                             Page 6
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
4: JAMES ST & MCBRIDE ST                                                                                                       10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR       NBL         NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     59      531       12       17      749       35       16          42      12       16       20      13
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900    1900      1900     1900    1900      1900     1900       1900     1900     1900    1900     1900
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0    3506         0        0    3503         0        0       1793        0        0    1763        0
Flt Permitted                          0.801                      0.936                         0.944                     0.919
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0    2819         0        0    3280         0           0    1713        0        0    1644        0
Right Turn on Red                                 Yes                        Yes                          Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                          5                        11                             13                        14
Link Speed (mph)                         30                         30                             30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      459                        455                            383                       324
Travel Time (s)                         10.4                       10.3                           8.7                       7.4
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              24                22       22                24           1                4        4                1
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                          5
Peak Hour Factor               0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91        0.91    0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)             0      662        0        0      880        0           0       77        0       0       54        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No        No       No      No           No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right         Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                           0                          0                             0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                             0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                            16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00        1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                       Perm                         Perm
Protected Phases                           2                          2                             4                         4
Permitted Phases                  2                           2                          4                            4
Minimum Split (s)              55.0      55.0              55.0     55.0              25.0        25.0             25.0     25.0
Total Split (s)                55.0      55.0      0.0     55.0     55.0      0.0     25.0        25.0     0.0     25.0     25.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              68.8%     68.8%     0.0%    68.8%    68.8%     0.0%    31.3%       31.3%    0.0%    31.3%    31.3%    0.0%
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0               4.0         4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0               1.0      1.0               1.0         1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0        -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0         3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Act Effct Green (s)                     52.0                       52.0                          22.0                      22.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.65                       0.65                          0.28                      0.28
v/c Ratio                               0.36                       0.41                          0.16                      0.12
Control Delay                            7.7                        2.9                          19.9                      18.1
Queue Delay                              0.0                        0.0                           0.0                       0.0
Total Delay                              7.7                        2.9                          19.9                      18.1
LOS                                        A                          A                             B                         B
Approach Delay                           7.7                        2.9                          19.9                      18.1
Approach LOS                               A                          A                             B                         B
Queue Length 50th (ft)                    38                         17                            16                        10
Queue Length 95th (ft)                    43                         22                            39                        28
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 379                        375                           303                       244
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                     1834                       2136                           481                       462

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hou - Coordination Alternative                               Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                   Page 7
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
4: JAMES ST & MCBRIDE ST                                                                                            10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR         NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Starvation Cap Reductn                     0                          0                         0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn                      0                          0                         0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                        0                          0                         0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                       0.36                       0.41                      0.16                0.12
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 76 (95%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Pretimed
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.41
Intersection Signal Delay: 6.0                                Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 64.2%                       ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   4: JAMES ST & MCBRIDE ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hou - Coordination Alternative                      Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                          Page 8
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
5: JAMES ST & CATHERINE ST                                                                                                     10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR       NBL         NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     14      502       43      126      718       22       47          79      57        2      127      36
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900    1900      1900     1900    1900      1900     1900       1900     1900     1900    1900     1900
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0    3470         0        0    3494         0        0       1741        0        0    1791        0
Flt Permitted                          0.928                      0.768                         0.902                     0.997
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0    3223         0        0    2692         0           0    1584        0        0    1787        0
Right Turn on Red                                 Yes                        Yes                          Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                        22                           6                            28                        17
Link Speed (mph)                         30                         30                             30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      455                        884                            352                       335
Travel Time (s)                         10.3                       20.1                           8.0                       7.6
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              24                28       28                24          22               19       19                22
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                          2                            2                          2
Peak Hour Factor               0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94        0.94    0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)             0      595        0        0      921        0           0      195        0       0      175        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No        No       No      No           No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right         Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                           0                          0                             0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                             0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                            16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00        1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                       Perm                         Perm
Protected Phases                           2                          2                             4                         4
Permitted Phases                  2                           2                          4                            4
Minimum Split (s)              55.0      55.0              55.0     55.0              25.0        25.0             25.0     25.0
Total Split (s)                55.0      55.0      0.0     55.0     55.0      0.0     25.0        25.0     0.0     25.0     25.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              68.8%     68.8%     0.0%    68.8%    68.8%     0.0%    31.3%       31.3%    0.0%    31.3%    31.3%    0.0%
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0               4.0         4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0               1.0      1.0               1.0         1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0        -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0         3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Act Effct Green (s)                     52.0                       52.0                          22.0                      22.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.65                       0.65                          0.28                      0.28
v/c Ratio                               0.28                       0.53                          0.43                      0.35
Control Delay                            1.8                        9.7                          23.7                      23.3
Queue Delay                              0.0                        0.0                           0.0                       0.0
Total Delay                              1.8                        9.7                          23.7                      23.3
LOS                                        A                          A                             C                         C
Approach Delay                           1.8                        9.7                          23.7                      23.3
Approach LOS                               A                          A                             C                         C
Queue Length 50th (ft)                     4                       114                             46                        43
Queue Length 95th (ft)                    15                          9                            87                        79
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 375                        804                           272                       255
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                     2103                       1752                           456                       504

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hou - Coordination Alternative                               Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                   Page 9
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
5: JAMES ST & CATHERINE ST                                                                                          10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR         NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Starvation Cap Reductn                     0                          0                         0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn                      0                          0                         0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                        0                          0                         0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                       0.28                       0.53                      0.43                0.35
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 65 (81%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Pretimed
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.53
Intersection Signal Delay: 9.9                                Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 85.1%                       ICU Level of Service E
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   5: JAMES ST & CATHERINE ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hou - Coordination Alternative                      Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                         Page 10
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                                                                          10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR       NBL         NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     30      478       53       23      814       64       34         268      53       38      252      18
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900    1900      1900     1900    1900      1900     1900       1900     1900     1900    1900     1900
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0    3471         0        0    3491         0        0       3423        0        0    3479        0
Flt Permitted                          0.880                      0.933                         0.895                     0.860
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0    3063         0        0    3260         0           0    3075        0        0    3004        0
Right Turn on Red                                 Yes                        Yes                          Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                        15                          11                            23                         7
Link Speed (mph)                         30                          30                            30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      884                        1883                          1359                       423
Travel Time (s)                         20.1                       42.8                          30.9                       9.6
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              13                12       12                13          17               22       22               17
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 6                          1                            1
Peak Hour Factor               0.96     0.96     0.96     0.96     0.96     0.96     0.96        0.96    0.96     0.96     0.96     0.96
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)             0      584        0        0      939        0           0      369        0       0      321        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No        No       No      No           No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right         Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                           0                          0                             0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                             0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                            16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00        1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                       Perm                         Perm
Protected Phases                           1                          1                             2                         2
Permitted Phases                  1                          1                             2                         2
Detector Phase                    1        1                 1        1                    2        2                2        2
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0               4.0         4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              31.0      31.0              31.0     31.0              21.0        21.0             21.0     21.0
Total Split (s)                31.0      31.0      0.0     31.0     31.0      0.0     21.0        21.0     0.0     21.0     21.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              38.8%     38.8%     0.0%    38.8%    38.8%     0.0%    26.3%       26.3%    0.0%    26.3%    26.3%    0.0%
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0               4.0         4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0               1.0      1.0               1.0         1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0        -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0         3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                      Lead      Lead              Lead     Lead                Lag         Lag              Lag      Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Recall Mode                   C-Min    C-Min             C-Min    C-Min              Max         Max              Max      Max
Act Effct Green (s)                     51.0                       51.0                          18.0                      18.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.64                       0.64                          0.22                      0.22
v/c Ratio                               0.30                       0.45                          0.52                      0.47
Control Delay                            7.1                        7.3                          28.5                      29.0
Queue Delay                              0.0                        0.0                           0.0                       0.0
Total Delay                              7.1                        7.3                          28.5                      29.0
LOS                                        A                          A                             C                         C
Approach Delay                           7.1                        7.3                          28.5                      29.0
Approach LOS                               A                          A                             C                         C
Queue Length 50th (ft)                     8                         16                            54                        48

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hou - Coordination Alternative                               Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                  Page 11
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                                            10/7/2011



Lane Group                       ø3
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
Satd. Flow (prot)
Flt Permitted
Satd. Flow (perm)
Right Turn on Red
Satd. Flow (RTOR)
Link Speed (mph)
Link Distance (ft)
Travel Time (s)
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)
Peak Hour Factor
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
Enter Blocked Intersection
Lane Alignment
Median Width(ft)
Link Offset(ft)
Crosswalk Width(ft)
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor
Turn Type
Protected Phases                  3
Permitted Phases
Detector Phase
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0
Minimum Split (s)              28.0
Total Split (s)                28.0
Total Split (%)                35%
Yellow Time (s)                 3.0
All-Red Time (s)                0.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)
Total Lost Time (s)
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Recall Mode                   None
Act Effct Green (s)
Actuated g/C Ratio
v/c Ratio
Control Delay
Queue Delay
Total Delay
LOS
Approach Delay
Approach LOS
Queue Length 50th (ft)

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hou - Coordination Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                      Page 12
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                                                               10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR         NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  135                         210                        83                 75
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 804                        1803                      1279                343
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                     1958                       2082                      710                 681
Starvation Cap Reductn                     0                          0                         0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn                      0                          0                         0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                        0                          0                         0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                       0.30                       0.45                      0.52                0.47
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 34 (43%), Referenced to phase 1:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.52
Intersection Signal Delay: 13.9                               Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 78.0%                       ICU Level of Service D
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   6: JAMES ST & LODI ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hou - Coordination Alternative                      Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                         Page 13
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                                            10/7/2011



Lane Group                       ø3
Queue Length 95th (ft)
Internal Link Dist (ft)
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
Starvation Cap Reductn
Spillback Cap Reductn
Storage Cap Reductn
Reduced v/c Ratio
Intersection Summary




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hou - Coordination Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                      Page 14
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
7: JAMES ST & OAK ST                                                                                                           10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR       NBL         NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     78      424       67       47      750       31      110         173      98       28       88      41
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900    1900      1900     1900    1900      1900     1900       1900     1900     1900    1900     1900
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0    3412         0        0    3499         0        0       1759        0        0    1762        0
Flt Permitted                          0.749                      0.890                         0.855                     0.901
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0    2570         0        0    3118         0           0    1517        0        0    1600        0
Right Turn on Red                                 Yes                        Yes                          Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                         27                          7                           26                        27
Link Speed (mph)                          30                         30                           30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      1883                       1028                          495                       602
Travel Time (s)                         42.8                       23.4                          11.3                      13.7
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              19                31       31                19          24               14       14                24
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 2                          1                            1                          1
Peak Hour Factor               0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94        0.94    0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)             0      605        0        0      881        0           0      405        0       0      168        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No        No       No      No           No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right         Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                           0                          0                             0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                             0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                            16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00        1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                       Perm                         Perm
Protected Phases                           2                          2                             4                         4
Permitted Phases                  2                          2                             4                         4
Detector Phase                    2        2                 2        2                    4        4                4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0               4.0         4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              40.0      40.0              40.0     40.0              25.0        25.0             25.0     25.0
Total Split (s)                44.0      44.0      0.0     44.0     44.0      0.0     36.0        36.0     0.0     36.0     36.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              55.0%     55.0%     0.0%    55.0%    55.0%     0.0%    45.0%       45.0%    0.0%    45.0%    45.0%    0.0%
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0               4.0         4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0               1.0      1.0               1.0         1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0        -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0         3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                 C-Max C-Max                None        None             None     None
Act Effct Green (s)                  47.4                        47.4                            26.6                      26.6
Actuated g/C Ratio                   0.59                        0.59                            0.33                      0.33
v/c Ratio                            0.39                        0.48                            0.77                      0.30
Control Delay                         7.8                         9.2                            32.4                      16.6
Queue Delay                           0.0                         0.0                             0.0                       0.0
Total Delay                           7.8                         9.2                            32.4                      16.6
LOS                                     A                           A                               C                         B
Approach Delay                        7.8                         9.2                            32.4                      16.6
Approach LOS                            A                           A                               C                         B
Queue Length 50th (ft)                 20                          50                            113                         34

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hou - Coordination Alternative                               Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                  Page 15
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
7: JAMES ST & OAK ST                                                                                                10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL       EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR         NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Queue Length 95th (ft)                    88                         86                      165                  58
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 1803                        948                      415                 522
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                     1532                       1849                      641                 676
Starvation Cap Reductn                     0                          0                         0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn                      0                          0                         0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                        0                          0                         0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                       0.39                       0.48                      0.63                0.25
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 56 (70%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 65
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.77
Intersection Signal Delay: 14.0                               Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 84.5%                       ICU Level of Service E
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   7: JAMES ST & OAK ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hou - Coordination Alternative                      Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                         Page 16
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
8: JAMES ST & DEWITT ST                                                                                                        10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR       NBL         NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     30      509       11        0      768      120        7           1       2      179        6      53
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900    1900      1900     1900     1900     1900     1900       1900     1900     1900    1900     1900
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0    3514         0        0     3433        0        0       1735        0        0    1734        0
Flt Permitted                          0.873                                                    0.829                     0.773
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0    3075         0        0     3433        0           0    1485        0        0    1344        0
Right Turn on Red                                 Yes                        Yes                          Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                          4                         35                             2                       20
Link Speed (mph)                          30                         30                            30                       30
Link Distance (ft)                      1028                        271                           427                      658
Travel Time (s)                         23.4                        6.2                           9.7                      15.0
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              22                16       16                22           8               37       37                8
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                          2
Peak Hour Factor               0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90        0.90    0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)             0      611        0        0      986        0           0       11        0       0      265        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No        No       No      No           No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right         Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                           0                          0                             0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                             0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                            16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00        1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                       Perm                         Perm
Protected Phases                           2                          2                             4                         4
Permitted Phases                  2                          2                             4                         4
Detector Phase                    2        2                 2        2                    4        4                4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0               4.0         4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              40.0      40.0              40.0     40.0              25.0        25.0             25.0     25.0
Total Split (s)                48.0      48.0      0.0     48.0     48.0      0.0     32.0        32.0     0.0     32.0     32.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              60.0%     60.0%     0.0%    60.0%    60.0%     0.0%    40.0%       40.0%    0.0%    40.0%    40.0%    0.0%
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0               4.0         4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0               1.0      1.0               1.0         1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0        -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0         3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                 C-Max C-Max                None        None             None     None
Act Effct Green (s)                  52.2                        52.2                            21.8                      21.8
Actuated g/C Ratio                   0.65                        0.65                            0.27                      0.27
v/c Ratio                            0.30                        0.44                            0.03                      0.70
Control Delay                         5.1                         3.4                            16.6                      33.3
Queue Delay                           0.0                         0.1                             0.0                       0.0
Total Delay                           5.1                         3.5                            16.6                      33.3
LOS                                     A                           A                               B                         C
Approach Delay                        5.1                         3.5                            16.6                      33.3
Approach LOS                            A                           A                               B                         C
Queue Length 50th (ft)                 20                          21                               2                        74

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hou - Coordination Alternative                               Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                  Page 17
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
8: JAMES ST & DEWITT ST                                                                                             10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR         NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Queue Length 95th (ft)                   71                          28                        9                 115
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 948                         191                      347                 578
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                     2009                       2253                      540                 500
Starvation Cap Reductn                     0                        256                         0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn                      0                          0                         0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                        0                          0                         0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                       0.30                       0.49                      0.02                0.53
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 60 (75%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 65
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.70
Intersection Signal Delay: 8.3                                Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 59.7%                       ICU Level of Service B
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   8: JAMES ST & DEWITT ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hou - Coordination Alternative                      Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                         Page 18
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
9: JAMES ST & SEDGEWICK ST                                                                       10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      NBL      NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    574      116       42      769      119       34
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900     1900     1900    1900     1900      1900
Satd. Flow (prot)              3407        0        0    3529     1732         0
Flt Permitted                                            0.883    0.962
Satd. Flow (perm)              3407        0        0    3123     1725         0
Right Turn on Red                        Yes                                 Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                58                                  18
Link Speed (mph)                 30                         30       30
Link Distance (ft)              271                       1437      521
Travel Time (s)                 6.2                       32.7     11.8
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                       22       22                 4        2
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                        2                                   1
Peak Hour Factor               0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91     0.91
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)           758       0         0      891      168       0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No      No        No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left   Right      Left     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                  0                          0       12
Link Offset(ft)                   0                          0        0
Crosswalk Width(ft)              16                         16       16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                                       Perm
Protected Phases                  2                          2        4
Permitted Phases                                     2
Minimum Split (s)              42.0               42.0     42.0     23.0
Total Split (s)                54.0       0.0     54.0     54.0     26.0      0.0
Total Split (%)              67.5%      0.0%    67.5%    67.5%    32.5%     0.0%
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0                4.0      4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0                1.0      1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Act Effct Green (s)            51.0                       51.0     23.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.64                       0.64     0.29
v/c Ratio                      0.35                       0.45     0.33
Control Delay                   4.6                        5.3     22.1
Queue Delay                     0.2                        0.0      0.0
Total Delay                     4.7                        5.3     22.1
LOS                               A                          A        C
Approach Delay                  4.7                        5.3     22.1
Approach LOS                      A                          A        C
Queue Length 50th (ft)           38                         64       40
Queue Length 95th (ft)           34                         48       75
Internal Link Dist (ft)        191                        1357      441
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)            2193                       1991      511

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hou - Coordination Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                      Page 19
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
9: JAMES ST & SEDGEWICK ST                                                                       10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      NBL      NBR
Starvation Cap Reductn         556                           0        0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0                          0        0
Storage Cap Reductn               0                          0        0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.46                       0.45     0.33
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 58 (73%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 65
Control Type: Pretimed
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.45
Intersection Signal Delay: 6.6                                Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 67.4%                       ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   9: JAMES ST & SEDGEWICK ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hou - Coordination Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                      Page 20
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
10: JAMES ST & WILSON ST                                                                         10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      NBL      NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    596       12       16      789       22       29
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900     1900     1900    1900     1900      1900
Satd. Flow (prot)              3526        0        0    3536     1646         0
Flt Permitted                                            0.937    0.979
Satd. Flow (perm)              3526        0        0    3316     1646         0
Right Turn on Red                        Yes                                 Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                 5                                  35
Link Speed (mph)                 30                         30       30
Link Distance (ft)             1437                       1093      701
Travel Time (s)                32.7                       24.8     15.9
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)                        7        7                         22
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                        1                                   1
Peak Hour Factor               0.84     0.84     0.84     0.84     0.84     0.84
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)           724       0         0      958       61       0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No      No        No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left   Right      Left     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                 12                         12       12
Link Offset(ft)                   0                          0        0
Crosswalk Width(ft)              16                         16       16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                                       Perm
Protected Phases                  2                          2        4
Permitted Phases                                    2
Detector Phase                    2                 2        2        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0                4.0      4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              40.0               40.0     40.0     25.0
Total Split (s)                54.0       0.0     54.0     54.0     26.0      0.0
Total Split (%)              67.5%      0.0%    67.5%    67.5%    32.5%     0.0%
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0                4.0      4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0                1.0      1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Recall Mode                  C-Max              C-Max C-Max       None
Act Effct Green (s)            68.3                     68.3       11.1
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.85                     0.85       0.14
v/c Ratio                      0.24                     0.34       0.24
Control Delay                   1.2                      1.9       17.0
Queue Delay                     0.0                      0.0        0.0
Total Delay                     1.2                      1.9       17.0
LOS                               A                        A          B
Approach Delay                  1.2                      1.9       17.0
Approach LOS                      A                        A          B
Queue Length 50th (ft)            6                       15          8

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hou - Coordination Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                      Page 21
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
10: JAMES ST & WILSON ST                                                                         10/7/2011



Lane Group                      EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT      NBL      NBR
Queue Length 95th (ft)           13                         45      23
Internal Link Dist (ft)        1357                       1013     621
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)            3009                       2829      498
Starvation Cap Reductn            0                          0        0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0                          0        0
Storage Cap Reductn               0                          0        0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.24                       0.34     0.12
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 15 (19%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 65
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.34
Intersection Signal Delay: 2.1                                Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 50.6%                       ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   10: JAMES ST & WILSON ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hou - Coordination Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                      Page 22
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
11: JAMES ST & TEALL AVE                                                                                                       10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR      NBL         NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    102      432       91       82      442       12      170         354      92        7      446     193
Ideal Flow (vphpl)            1900      1900     1900    1900      1900     1900     1900        1900    1900     1900     1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)             160                 0      125                 0        0                   0        0                0
Storage Lanes                     1                 0        1                 0        0                   0        0                0
Taper Length (ft)                25                25       25                25       25                  25       25               25
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      3426        0    1770      3523        0        0       3402        0        0    3324        0
Flt Permitted                 0.950                      0.950                                  0.577                     0.947
Satd. Flow (perm)             1757      3426        0    1752      3523        0           0    1986        0        0    3151        0
Right Turn on Red                                 Yes                        Yes                          Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                         32                          3                            34                        90
Link Speed (mph)                          30                         30                            30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      1093                       2248                           180                       188
Travel Time (s)                         24.8                       51.1                           4.1                       4.3
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              10                16       16                10          29                7        7               29
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 1                          1
Peak Hour Factor               0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90      0.90    0.90     0.90        0.90    0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)           113      581       0        91      504         0          0      684        0       0      718        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No        No       No       No          No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right      Left     Left    Right        Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                         12                             0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                             0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                            16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00        1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                      Prot                       Prot                      pm+pt                        Perm
Protected Phases                  1        6                 5         2                7           4                         8
Permitted Phases                                                                        4                            8
Detector Phase                    1        6                 5         2                7           4                8        8
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             5.0       5.0               5.0       5.0              5.0         5.0              5.0      5.0
Minimum Split (s)               9.5      22.0               9.5     22.0              10.0        22.0             22.0     22.0
Total Split (s)                15.0      26.8      0.0     12.2     24.0      0.0     10.0        41.0     0.0     31.0     31.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              18.8%     33.5%     0.0%    15.3%    30.0%     0.0%    12.5%       51.3%    0.0%    38.8%    38.8%    0.0%
Yellow Time (s)                 3.5       4.0               3.5       4.0              4.0         4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0               1.0       1.0              1.0         1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0        -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             2.5       3.0      3.0      2.5      3.0      3.0      3.0         3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                      Lead        Lag             Lead       Lag             Lead                           Lag      Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Recall Mode                   None     C-Min             None     C-Min             None        None             None     None
Act Effct Green (s)            11.3     30.2               9.3     28.3                          34.1                      34.1
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.14     0.38              0.12     0.35                          0.43                      0.43
v/c Ratio                      0.45     0.44              0.44     0.40                          0.79                      0.52
Control Delay                  33.8     23.7              47.0     13.4                          25.9                      15.5
Queue Delay                     0.0      0.0               0.0      0.0                           0.0                       0.0
Total Delay                    33.8     23.7              47.0     13.4                          25.9                      15.5
LOS                               C        C                 D        B                             C                         B

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hou - Coordination Alternative                               Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                  Page 23
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
11: JAMES ST & TEALL AVE                                                                                            10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL       EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR         NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Approach Delay                          25.4                       18.5                      25.9                15.5
Approach LOS                               C                          B                        C                    B
Queue Length 50th (ft)           35      100               32        30                       93                  75
Queue Length 95th (ft)           68      141              m60      m86                       134                 102
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 1013                       2168                      100                 108
Turn Bay Length (ft)           160                        125
Base Capacity (vph)            277      1312              215      1248                      961                1405
Starvation Cap Reductn            0        0                 0        0                         0                  0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0        0                 0        0                         0                  0
Storage Cap Reductn               0        0                 0        0                         0                  0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.41     0.44              0.42     0.40                      0.71               0.51
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 52 (65%), Referenced to phase 2:WBT and 6:EBT, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 65
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.79
Intersection Signal Delay: 21.3                               Intersection LOS: C
Intersection Capacity Utilization 70.4%                       ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   11: JAMES ST & TEALL AVE




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hou - Coordination Alternative                      Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                         Page 24
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                                                                           10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR       NBL         NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                      0      501       30       10      422        0       44           0      73      238       43      70
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900     1900     1900     1900    1900      1900     1900       1900     1900     1900    1900     1900
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0     1863     1583        0    1861         0        0       1652        0        0    1742        0
Flt Permitted                                                     0.986                         0.804                     0.719
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0     1863     1528        0    1836         0           0    1349        0        0    1293        0
Right Turn on Red                                 Yes                        Yes                          Yes                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                                  37                                              90                        17
Link Speed (mph)                          30                         30                            30                        30
Link Distance (ft)                      2248                        208                           239                       142
Travel Time (s)                         51.1                        4.7                           5.4                       3.2
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              28                13       13                28          14                1        1                14
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)                                 4                                                                                  1
Peak Hour Factor               0.81     0.81     0.81     0.81     0.81     0.81     0.81        0.81    0.81     0.81     0.81     0.81
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)             0      619       37        0      533        0           0      144        0       0      433        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No      No        No       No      No           No       No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right         Left     Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                         12                             0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                             0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                            16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00        1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turning Speed (mph)              15                 9       15                 9       15                   9       15                 9
Turn Type                                       Perm     Perm                       Perm                         Perm
Protected Phases                        124                        124                              3                         3
Permitted Phases                                 124      124                              3                         3
Detector Phase                          124      124      124      124                     3        3                3        3
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)                                                                    8.0         8.0              8.0      8.0
Minimum Split (s)                                                                     22.0        22.0             22.0     22.0
Total Split (s)                  0.0     47.0     47.0     47.0     47.0      0.0     33.0        33.0     0.0     33.0     33.0     0.0
Total Split (%)                0.0%    58.8%    58.8%    58.8%    58.8%     0.0%    41.3%       41.3%    0.0%    41.3%    41.3%    0.0%
Yellow Time (s)                                                                        3.5         3.5              3.5      3.5
All-Red Time (s)                                                                       1.0         1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)            0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0         0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Total Lost Time (s)             4.0      4.5      4.5      4.5      4.5      4.0       4.5         4.5     4.0      4.5      4.5     4.0
Lead/Lag                                                                             Lead        Lead             Lead     Lead
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Recall Mode                                                                         None        None             None     None
Act Effct Green (s)                     42.9     42.9              42.9                          28.1                      28.1
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.54     0.54              0.54                          0.35                      0.35
v/c Ratio                               0.62     0.04              0.54                          0.27                      0.93
Control Delay                           28.8     14.3               9.3                           9.3                      53.4
Queue Delay                              0.2      0.0               0.9                           0.0                      82.4
Total Delay                             28.9     14.3              10.2                           9.3                     135.8
LOS                                        C        B                 B                             A                         F
Approach Delay                          28.1                       10.2                           9.3                     135.8
Approach LOS                               C                          B                             A                         F

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hou - Coordination Alternative                               Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                  Page 25
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                                             10/7/2011



Lane Group                       ø1       ø2       ø4
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)
Ideal Flow (vphpl)
Satd. Flow (prot)
Flt Permitted
Satd. Flow (perm)
Right Turn on Red
Satd. Flow (RTOR)
Link Speed (mph)
Link Distance (ft)
Travel Time (s)
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)
Confl. Bikes (#/hr)
Peak Hour Factor
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
Enter Blocked Intersection
Lane Alignment
Median Width(ft)
Link Offset(ft)
Crosswalk Width(ft)
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor
Turning Speed (mph)
Turn Type
Protected Phases                  1        2        4
Permitted Phases
Detector Phase
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             5.0     10.0      5.0
Minimum Split (s)               9.5     22.0      9.5
Total Split (s)                10.0     29.0      8.0
Total Split (%)                13%      36%      10%
Yellow Time (s)                 3.5      3.5      3.5
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)
Total Lost Time (s)
Lead/Lag                       Lead      Lag      Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Recall Mode                  C-Max       Min    None
Act Effct Green (s)
Actuated g/C Ratio
v/c Ratio
Control Delay
Queue Delay
Total Delay
LOS
Approach Delay
Approach LOS

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hou - Coordination Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                      Page 26
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                                                                10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL       EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT     WBR         NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Queue Length 50th (ft)                   185       2                 25                       12                 134
Queue Length 95th (ft)                   260     m15               m44                        32                #213
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 2168                        128                      159                  62
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                     999      836               984                       539                 472
Starvation Cap Reductn                     0        0              207                          0                107
Spillback Cap Reductn                     52        0                 0                         2                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                        0        0                 0                         0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                       0.65     0.04              0.69                      0.27                1.19
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 50 (63%), Referenced to phase 1:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.93
Intersection Signal Delay: 47.6                               Intersection LOS: D
Intersection Capacity Utilization 67.3%                       ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   12: JAMES ST & Grant




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hou - Coordination Alternative                      Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                         Page 27
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                                             10/7/2011



Lane Group                       ø1       ø2       ø4
Queue Length 50th (ft)
Queue Length 95th (ft)
Internal Link Dist (ft)
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)
Starvation Cap Reductn
Spillback Cap Reductn
Storage Cap Reductn
Reduced v/c Ratio
Intersection Summary




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hou - Coordination Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                      Page 28
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
13: James S & Walgreens                                                                                                   10/7/2011



Lane Group                    EBL2       EBL     EBT      WBT      WBR      SBL      SBR       SEL     SER       ø3
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     60      102      650      422      258        6       10         0       0
Ideal Flow (vphpl)             1900    1900      1900     1900     1900    1900      1900      1900    1900
Storage Length (ft)                       75                        150        0        0         0       0
Storage Lanes                              1                          1        1        0         0       0
Taper Length (ft)                         25                         25       25       25        25      25
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0    1770      1863     1863     1583    1674         0         0       0
Flt Permitted                          0.322                               0.982
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0      600     1863     1863     1449    1476           0       0       0
Right Turn on Red                                                                                       Yes
Satd. Flow (RTOR)
Link Speed (mph)                                   30      30                 30                 30
Link Distance (ft)                                208     618                139                186
Travel Time (s)                                   4.7     14.0               3.2                4.2
Confl. Peds. (#/hr)              28                                  28       28
Peak Hour Factor               0.81      0.81    0.81     0.81     0.81     0.81     0.81      0.81    0.81
Shared Lane Traffic (%)
Lane Group Flow (vph)             0      200      802      521     319        19       0          0       0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No       No       No      No        No      No         No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left     Left     Left   Right      Left   Right       Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                                   12       12                12                  0
Link Offset(ft)                                     0        0                 0                  0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                                16       16                16                 16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00   1.00       1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00
Turning Speed (mph)               15     15                           9       15        9        15       9
Turn Type                    custom custom                        Perm
Protected Phases                          1      123         2                 4                                  3
Permitted Phases                 23     23                            2
Detector Phase                   23       1      123         2        2        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)                       5.0              10.0     10.0      5.0                               8.0
Minimum Split (s)                         9.5              22.0     22.0      9.5                              22.0
Total Split (s)                62.0      10.0     72.0     29.0     29.0      8.0     0.0        0.0     0.0   33.0
Total Split (%)              77.5%     12.5%    90.0%    36.3%    36.3%    10.0%    0.0%       0.0%    0.0%    41%
Yellow Time (s)                           3.5               3.5      3.5      3.5                               3.5
All-Red Time (s)                          1.0               1.0      1.0      1.0                               1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)            0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0    0.0      0.0
Total Lost Time (s)             4.5       4.5     4.5       4.5      4.5      4.5        4.0    4.0      4.0
Lead/Lag                                Lead                Lag      Lag     Lag                               Lead
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Recall Mode                            C-Max               Min      Min    None                                None
Act Effct Green (s)                      62.6    67.1     24.5     24.5      3.9
Actuated g/C Ratio                       0.78    0.84     0.31     0.31     0.05
v/c Ratio                                0.36    0.51     0.91     0.72     0.23
Control Delay                             2.7     2.8     50.1     35.6     44.1
Queue Delay                               0.2     0.9      0.0      0.0      0.0
Total Delay                               2.9     3.7     50.1     35.6     44.1
LOS                                         A       A        D        D        D

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hou - Coordination Alternative                            Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                               Page 29
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
13: James S & Walgreens                                                                                           10/7/2011



Lane Group                    EBL2      EBL      EBT      WBT     WBR       SBL        SBR   SEL   SER   ø3
Approach Delay                                    3.5     44.6              44.1
Approach LOS                                        A        D                D
Queue Length 50th (ft)                    2        10      169       96        6
Queue Length 95th (ft)                   m5      m18      #245      137      19
Internal Link Dist (ft)                          128       538               59              106
Turn Bay Length (ft)                      75                        150
Base Capacity (vph)                     550      1572      571      444       81
Starvation Cap Reductn                    63      470        0        0        0
Spillback Cap Reductn                      0        0        0        0        0
Storage Cap Reductn                        0        0        0        0        0
Reduced v/c Ratio                       0.41     0.73     0.91     0.72     0.23
Intersection Summary
Area Type:                   Other
Cycle Length: 80
Actuated Cycle Length: 80
Offset: 50 (63%), Referenced to phase 1:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.93
Intersection Signal Delay: 22.5                               Intersection LOS: C
Intersection Capacity Utilization 46.6%                       ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   13: James S & Walgreens




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hou - Coordination Alternative                    Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                       Page 30
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
1: JAMES ST & OSWEGO BLVD                                                                                                    10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR      NBL       NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                      0      543      121       34      596        1      329         0      20        5        7       11
Lane Util. Factor              0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95      0.95    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Ped Bike Factor                         0.99                       1.00                        1.00                      0.98
Frt                                    0.973                                                  0.983                     0.932
Flt Protected                                                     0.997             0.950     0.958                     0.990
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0     3409        0        0    3528         0    1681      1661        0        0    1694        0
Flt Permitted                                                     0.804             0.209     0.280                     0.875
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0     3409        0        0    2844         0      370       485       0        0    1493        0
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                         30                                                     12                        12
Adj. Flow (vph)                   0      572      127       36      627         1     346         0       21       5        7       12
Lane Group Flow (vph)             0      699         0       0      664         0     183       184        0       0       24        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No       No       No       No       No       No        No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left    Right     Left     Left    Right     Left      Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                         12                          12                        12
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                           0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                          16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turning Speed (mph)              15                 9       15                 9       15                 9       15                 9
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                       Perm                       Perm
Protected Phases                           1                          1                           2                         3
Permitted Phases                  1                          1                            2                        3
Detector Phase                    1        1                 1        1                   2       2                3        3
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0               4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              32.0      32.0              32.0     32.0              35.0      35.0             18.0     18.0
Total Split (s)                25.0      25.0      0.0     25.0     25.0      0.0     50.0      50.0     0.0     10.0     10.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              29.4%     29.4%     0.0%    29.4%    29.4%     0.0%    58.8%     58.8%    0.0%    11.8%    11.8%    0.0%
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0               4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0               1.0      1.0               1.0       1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0      -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                      Lead      Lead              Lead     Lead                Lag       Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                 C-Max C-Max                 Max        Max            None     None
Act Effct Green (s)                  28.0                        28.0                47.0      47.0                       7.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                   0.33                        0.33                0.55      0.55                      0.08
v/c Ratio                            0.61                        0.71                0.89      0.67                      0.18
Control Delay                        26.8                        26.1                62.2      27.7                      28.1
Queue Delay                           0.0                         0.0                 0.0        0.0                      0.0
Total Delay                          26.8                        26.1                62.2      27.7                      28.1
LOS                                     C                           C                   E         C                         C
Approach Delay                       26.8                        26.1                          44.9                      28.1
Approach LOS                            C                           C                             D                         C
Queue Length 50th (ft)                 97                          57                  57        43                         4
Queue Length 95th (ft)               162                        #183                 #155      #126                        20
Internal Link Dist (ft)                90                        457                            162                        54
Turn Bay Length (ft)

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Coordination Alternative                            Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                 Page 1
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
1: JAMES ST & OSWEGO BLVD                                                                                            10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL       EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR        NBL    NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Base Capacity (vph)                     1143                        937                205    274                 134
Starvation Cap Reductn                     0                          0                   0      0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn                      0                          0                   0      0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                        0                          0                   0      0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                       0.61                       0.71                0.89   0.67                0.18
Intersection Summary
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 40 (47%), Referenced to phase 1:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 85
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.89
Intersection Signal Delay: 30.4                               Intersection LOS: C
Intersection Capacity Utilization 64.2%                       ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

Splits and Phases:   1: JAMES ST & OSWEGO BLVD




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Coordination Alternative                      Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                           Page 2
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
2: JAMES ST & STATE ST                                                                                                        10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR      NBL        NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     62      490       16       97      568      349       38        972     124      119      211       25
Lane Util. Factor              1.00     0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95     1.00     1.00       0.95    0.95     1.00     0.95     0.95
Ped Bike Factor                0.99     1.00                       1.00     0.98     0.99       0.99                      1.00
Frt                                    0.995                               0.850               0.983                     0.984
Flt Protected                 0.950                               0.993             0.950                       0.950
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      3512        0        0    3514      1583    1770        3459       0    1770      3471       0
Flt Permitted                 0.374                               0.673             0.592                       0.114
Satd. Flow (perm)               692     3512        0        0    2375      1546    1087        3459       0      212     3471       0
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                          4                                 219                  19                        22
Adj. Flow (vph)                  68      538        18     107      624      384       42       1068     136      131      232      27
Lane Group Flow (vph)            68      556         0       0      731      384       42       1204        0     131      259        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No       No       No       No       No       No         No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left    Right     Left     Left    Right     Left       Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                         12                           12                        12
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                            0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                           16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00       1.00    1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       pm+pt             Perm     Perm                        pm+pt
Protected Phases                           2                  1       6                            4                 3       8
Permitted Phases                  2                           6                 6        4                           8
Minimum Split (s)              24.0      24.0              14.0     38.0     38.0     33.0       33.0             14.0     47.0
Total Split (s)                26.0      26.0      0.0     12.0     38.0     38.0     35.0       35.0     0.0     12.0     47.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              30.6%     30.6%     0.0%    14.1%    44.7%    44.7%    41.2%      41.2%    0.0%    14.1%    55.3%    0.0%
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0        4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0               1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0        1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0       -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0        3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                       Lag       Lag              Lead                         Lag        Lag            Lead
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Act Effct Green (s)            23.0     23.0                       35.0     35.0     32.0       32.0             44.0     44.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.27     0.27                       0.41     0.41     0.38       0.38             0.52     0.52
v/c Ratio                      0.36     0.58                       0.67     0.50     0.10       0.92             0.48     0.14
Control Delay                  23.4     18.5                       21.1     10.3     18.2       37.3             17.3     10.0
Queue Delay                     0.0      0.0                        0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0              0.0      0.0
Total Delay                    23.4     18.5                       21.1     10.3     18.2       37.3             17.3     10.0
LOS                               C        B                          C        B        B          D                B        A
Approach Delay                          19.0                       17.4                         36.6                      12.4
Approach LOS                               B                          B                            D                         B
Queue Length 50th (ft)           5        21                         83      26           10     212               23       22
Queue Length 95th (ft)         m21        70                      m119      m71           24    #305               47       35
Internal Link Dist (ft)                  457                       697                           309                       212
Turn Bay Length (ft)           150                                           150      120                        120
Base Capacity (vph)            187      953                        1099      765      409       1314             275      1807
Starvation Cap Reductn            0        0                          0        0        0          0                0        0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0        0                          0        0        0          0                0        0
Storage Cap Reductn               0        0                          0        0        0          0                0        0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.36     0.58                       0.67     0.50     0.10       0.92             0.48     0.14

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Coordination Alternative                             Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                  Page 3
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
2: JAMES ST & STATE ST                                                                            10/7/2011

Intersection Summary
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 43 (51%), Referenced to phase 2:EBTL and 6:WBTL, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 85
Control Type: Pretimed
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.92
Intersection Signal Delay: 24.2                              Intersection LOS: C
Intersection Capacity Utilization 83.9%                      ICU Level of Service E
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   2: JAMES ST & STATE ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Coordination Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                        Page 4
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
3: JAMES ST & TOWNSEND ST                                                                                                    10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR      NBL      NBT      NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     35      616       82       42      705       47      266      486      112       42      291       43
Lane Util. Factor              0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Ped Bike Factor                         0.99                       1.00              0.99              0.98     1.00     1.00
Frt                                    0.983                      0.991                               0.850             0.981
Flt Protected                          0.998                      0.997             0.950                      0.950
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0    3444         0        0    3483         0    1770      1863     1583    1770      1821       0
Flt Permitted                          0.884                      0.876             0.417                      0.264
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0    3049         0        0    3058         0      770     1863    1551       490     1821       0
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                         23                         11                                119                 11
Adj. Flow (vph)                  37      655        87      45      750        50     283      517     119        45      310       46
Lane Group Flow (vph)             0      779         0       0      845         0     283      517     119        45      356        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No       No       No       No       No       No       No      No        No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left    Right     Left     Left    Right     Left     Left   Right      Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                           0                          0                         12                         12
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                          0                          0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                         16                         16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                       Perm              Perm     Perm
Protected Phases                           2                          2                          4                          4
Permitted Phases                  2                           2                          4                 4        4
Minimum Split (s)              50.0      50.0              50.0     50.0              35.0     35.0     35.0     35.0     35.0
Total Split (s)                45.0      45.0      0.0     45.0     45.0      0.0     40.0     40.0     40.0     40.0     40.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              52.9%     52.9%     0.0%    52.9%    52.9%     0.0%    47.1%    47.1%    47.1%    47.1%    47.1%    0.0%
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0               4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0               1.0      1.0               1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Act Effct Green (s)                     42.0                       42.0              37.0     37.0     37.0     37.0     37.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.49                       0.49              0.44     0.44     0.44     0.44     0.44
v/c Ratio                               0.51                       0.56              0.84     0.64     0.16     0.21     0.45
Control Delay                           12.0                        6.8              46.5     23.2      3.5     18.2     18.5
Queue Delay                              0.0                        0.0               0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Total Delay                             12.0                        6.8              46.5     23.2      3.5     18.2     18.5
LOS                                        B                          A                 D        C        A        B        B
Approach Delay                          12.0                        6.8                       27.8                       18.5
Approach LOS                               B                          A                          C                          B
Queue Length 50th (ft)                    50                         31                89      142        0       10       85
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  m90                          42              #191     215        20       27      134
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 697                        379                         120                        237
Turn Bay Length (ft)                                                                 105                         150
Base Capacity (vph)                     1518                       1517              335      811      742      213      799
Starvation Cap Reductn                     0                          0                 0        0        0        0        0
Spillback Cap Reductn                      0                          0                 0        0        0        0        0
Storage Cap Reductn                        0                          0                 0        0        0        0        0
Reduced v/c Ratio                       0.51                       0.56              0.84     0.64     0.16     0.21     0.45

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Coordination Alternative                            Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                 Page 5
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
3: JAMES ST & TOWNSEND ST                                                                         10/7/2011

Intersection Summary
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 55 (65%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 85
Control Type: Pretimed
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.84
Intersection Signal Delay: 16.4                               Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 91.3%                       ICU Level of Service F
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   3: JAMES ST & TOWNSEND ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Coordination Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                        Page 6
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
4: JAMES ST & MCBRIDE ST                                                                                                     10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR      NBL       NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     55      695       20       13      720       43       19        65       7       70       78       55
Lane Util. Factor              0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95     1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Ped Bike Factor                         1.00                       0.99                        1.00                      0.99
Frt                                    0.996                      0.992                       0.989                     0.963
Flt Protected                          0.996                      0.999                       0.990                     0.983
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0    3503         0        0    3486         0          0   1820        0        0    1751        0
Flt Permitted                          0.830                      0.937                       0.928                     0.879
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0    2915         0        0    3269         0          0   1704        0        0    1560        0
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                          6                         14                           5                        22
Adj. Flow (vph)                  62      781        22      15      809        48      21        73       8       79       88      62
Lane Group Flow (vph)             0      865         0       0      872         0       0       102        0       0      229        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No       No       No       No       No       No        No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left    Right     Left     Left    Right     Left      Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                           0                          0                           0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                           0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                          16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                       Perm                       Perm
Protected Phases                           2                          2                           4                         4
Permitted Phases                  2                           2                          4                          4
Minimum Split (s)              59.0      59.0              59.0     59.0              26.0      26.0             26.0     26.0
Total Split (s)                59.0      59.0      0.0     59.0     59.0      0.0     26.0      26.0     0.0     26.0     26.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              69.4%     69.4%     0.0%    69.4%    69.4%     0.0%    30.6%     30.6%    0.0%    30.6%    30.6%    0.0%
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0               4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0               1.0      1.0               1.0       1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0      -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Act Effct Green (s)                     56.0                       56.0                        23.0                      23.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.66                       0.66                        0.27                      0.27
v/c Ratio                               0.45                       0.40                        0.22                      0.52
Control Delay                            4.3                       11.1                        24.4                      28.8
Queue Delay                              0.0                        0.0                         0.0                       0.0
Total Delay                              4.3                       11.1                        24.4                      28.8
LOS                                        A                          B                           C                         C
Approach Delay                           4.3                       11.1                        24.4                      28.8
Approach LOS                               A                          B                           C                         C
Queue Length 50th (ft)                    22                         72                          27                        63
Queue Length 95th (ft)                    47                       168                           54                      110
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 379                        375                         303                       244
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                     1923                       2158                        465                       438
Starvation Cap Reductn                     0                          0                           0                         0
Spillback Cap Reductn                      0                          0                           0                         0
Storage Cap Reductn                        0                          0                           0                         0
Reduced v/c Ratio                       0.45                       0.40                        0.22                      0.52

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Coordination Alternative                            Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                 Page 7
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
4: JAMES ST & MCBRIDE ST                                                                          10/7/2011

Intersection Summary
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 62 (73%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 85
Control Type: Pretimed
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.52
Intersection Signal Delay: 10.9                               Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 71.6%                       ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   4: JAMES ST & MCBRIDE ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Coordination Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                        Page 8
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
5: JAMES ST & CATHERINE ST                                                                                                   10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR      NBL       NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     33      696       43       71      598       28      136       214      68        7      136       42
Lane Util. Factor              0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95     1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Ped Bike Factor                         1.00                       1.00                        0.98                      0.99
Frt                                    0.992                      0.994                       0.978                     0.969
Flt Protected                          0.998                      0.995                       0.984                     0.998
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0    3490         0        0    3490         0          0   1775        0        0    1784        0
Flt Permitted                          0.903                      0.798                       0.815                     0.984
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0    3156         0        0    2796         0          0   1460        0        0    1758        0
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                         11                          8                          13                        20
Adj. Flow (vph)                  34      718        44      73      616        29     140       221       70       7      140       43
Lane Group Flow (vph)             0      796         0       0      718         0       0       431        0       0      190        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No       No       No       No       No       No        No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left    Right     Left     Left    Right     Left      Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                           0                          0                           0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                           0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                          16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                       Perm                       Perm
Protected Phases                           2                          2                           4                         4
Permitted Phases                  2                           2                          4                          4
Minimum Split (s)              59.0      59.0              59.0     59.0              26.0      26.0             26.0     26.0
Total Split (s)                50.0      50.0      0.0     50.0     50.0      0.0     35.0      35.0     0.0     35.0     35.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              58.8%     58.8%     0.0%    58.8%    58.8%     0.0%    41.2%     41.2%    0.0%    41.2%    41.2%    0.0%
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0               4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0               1.0      1.0               1.0       1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0      -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Act Effct Green (s)                     47.0                       47.0                        32.0                      32.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.55                       0.55                        0.38                      0.38
v/c Ratio                               0.45                       0.46                        0.77                      0.28
Control Delay                           14.8                       13.2                        33.9                      17.8
Queue Delay                              0.0                        0.0                         0.0                       0.0
Total Delay                             14.8                       13.2                        33.9                      17.8
LOS                                        B                          B                           C                         B
Approach Delay                          14.8                       13.2                        33.9                      17.8
Approach LOS                               B                          B                           C                         B
Queue Length 50th (ft)                    73                         61                         131                        42
Queue Length 95th (ft)                  172                       m181                         #234                        76
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 375                        804                          272                      255
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                     1750                       1550                        558                       674
Starvation Cap Reductn                     0                          0                           0                         0
Spillback Cap Reductn                      0                          0                           0                         0
Storage Cap Reductn                        0                          0                           0                         0
Reduced v/c Ratio                       0.45                       0.46                        0.77                      0.28

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Coordination Alternative                            Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                 Page 9
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
5: JAMES ST & CATHERINE ST                                                                        10/7/2011

Intersection Summary
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 19 (22%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 85
Control Type: Pretimed
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.77
Intersection Signal Delay: 18.4                               Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 93.8%                       ICU Level of Service F
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   5: JAMES ST & CATHERINE ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Coordination Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                       Page 10
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                                                                        10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR      NBL       NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     13      745       13       13      589       74       74       510     106       47      224       34
Lane Util. Factor              0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95      0.95    0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95
Ped Bike Factor                         1.00                       1.00                        0.99                      1.00
Frt                                    0.998                      0.984                       0.977                     0.983
Flt Protected                          0.999                      0.999                       0.995                     0.992
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0    3527         0        0    3467         0          0   3418        0        0    3438        0
Flt Permitted                          0.938                      0.933                       0.842                     0.668
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0    3311         0        0    3238         0          0   2889        0        0    2313        0
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                          2                         16                          26                        17
Adj. Flow (vph)                  15      876        15      15      693        87      87       600     125       55      264       40
Lane Group Flow (vph)             0      906         0       0      795         0       0       812        0       0      359        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No       No       No       No       No       No        No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left    Right     Left     Left    Right     Left      Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                           0                          0                           0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                           0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                          16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                       Perm                       Perm
Protected Phases                           1                          1                           2                         2
Permitted Phases                  1                          1                            2                        2
Detector Phase                    1        1                 1        1                   2       2                2        2
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0               4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              19.0      19.0              19.0     19.0              26.0      26.0             26.0     26.0
Total Split (s)                30.0      30.0      0.0     30.0     30.0      0.0     30.0      30.0     0.0     30.0     30.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              35.3%     35.3%     0.0%    35.3%    35.3%     0.0%    35.3%     35.3%    0.0%    35.3%    35.3%    0.0%
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0               4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0               1.0      1.0               1.0       1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0      -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                      Lead      Lead              Lead     Lead                Lag       Lag              Lag      Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Recall Mode                   C-Min    C-Min             C-Min    C-Min               Max       Max             Max      Max
Act Effct Green (s)                     47.0                       47.0                        27.0                      27.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.55                       0.55                        0.32                      0.32
v/c Ratio                               0.49                       0.44                        0.87                      0.48
Control Delay                           11.1                       11.7                        38.2                      24.8
Queue Delay                              0.0                        0.0                          0.0                      0.0
Total Delay                             11.1                       11.7                        38.2                      24.8
LOS                                        B                          B                           D                         C
Approach Delay                          11.1                       11.7                        38.2                      24.8
Approach LOS                               B                          B                           D                         C
Queue Length 50th (ft)                    37                         35                         141                        52
Queue Length 95th (ft)                   216                        146                        #181                        74
Internal Link Dist (ft)                  804                       1803                        1279                      343
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                     1831                       1797                         935                       746

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Coordination Alternative                            Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                Page 11
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                                             10/7/2011



Lane Group                       ø3
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)
Lane Util. Factor
Ped Bike Factor
Frt
Flt Protected
Satd. Flow (prot)
Flt Permitted
Satd. Flow (perm)
Satd. Flow (RTOR)
Adj. Flow (vph)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
Enter Blocked Intersection
Lane Alignment
Median Width(ft)
Link Offset(ft)
Crosswalk Width(ft)
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor
Turn Type
Protected Phases                  3
Permitted Phases
Detector Phase
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0
Minimum Split (s)              25.0
Total Split (s)                25.0
Total Split (%)                29%
Yellow Time (s)                 3.0
All-Red Time (s)                0.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)
Total Lost Time (s)
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Recall Mode                   None
Act Effct Green (s)
Actuated g/C Ratio
v/c Ratio
Control Delay
Queue Delay
Total Delay
LOS
Approach Delay
Approach LOS
Queue Length 50th (ft)
Queue Length 95th (ft)
Internal Link Dist (ft)
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Coordination Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                       Page 12
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                                                               10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR        NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Starvation Cap Reductn                     0                          0                         0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn                      0                          0                         0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                        0                          0                         0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                       0.49                       0.44                      0.87                0.48
Intersection Summary
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 35 (41%), Referenced to phase 1:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.87
Intersection Signal Delay: 20.6                               Intersection LOS: C
Intersection Capacity Utilization 73.7%                       ICU Level of Service D
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.

Splits and Phases:   6: JAMES ST & LODI ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Coordination Alternative                     Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                         Page 13
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
6: JAMES ST & LODI ST                                                                             10/7/2011



Lane Group                       ø3
Starvation Cap Reductn
Spillback Cap Reductn
Storage Cap Reductn
Reduced v/c Ratio
Intersection Summary




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Coordination Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                       Page 14
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
7: JAMES ST & OAK ST                                                                                                         10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR      NBL       NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     30      826       42       66      538       25       74       109      53       30      169       64
Lane Util. Factor              0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95     1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Ped Bike Factor                         1.00                       1.00                        0.99                      0.99
Frt                                    0.993                      0.994                       0.970                     0.967
Flt Protected                          0.998                      0.995                       0.985                     0.994
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0    3494         0        0    3492         0          0   1766        0        0    1778        0
Flt Permitted                          0.916                      0.764                       0.674                     0.937
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0    3206         0        0    2679         0          0   1205        0        0    1673        0
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                          8                          7                          22                        24
Adj. Flow (vph)                  33      918        47      73      598        28      82       121       59      33      188       71
Lane Group Flow (vph)             0      998         0       0      699         0       0       262        0       0      292        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No       No       No       No       No       No        No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left    Right     Left     Left    Right     Left      Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                           0                          0                           0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                           0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                          16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                       Perm                       Perm
Protected Phases                           2                          2                           4                         4
Permitted Phases                  2                          2                            4                        4
Detector Phase                    2        2                 2        2                   4       4                4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0               4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              39.0      39.0              39.0     39.0              31.0      31.0             31.0     31.0
Total Split (s)                45.0      45.0      0.0     45.0     45.0      0.0     40.0      40.0     0.0     40.0     40.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              52.9%     52.9%     0.0%    52.9%    52.9%     0.0%    47.1%     47.1%    0.0%    47.1%    47.1%    0.0%
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0               4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0               1.0      1.0               1.0       1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0      -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                 C-Max C-Max                None      None             None     None
Act Effct Green (s)                  57.4                        57.4                          21.6                      21.6
Actuated g/C Ratio                   0.68                        0.68                          0.25                      0.25
v/c Ratio                            0.46                        0.39                          0.81                      0.66
Control Delay                         4.1                         5.8                          45.8                      32.4
Queue Delay                           0.0                         0.0                           0.0                       0.0
Total Delay                           4.1                         5.8                          45.8                      32.4
LOS                                     A                           A                             D                         C
Approach Delay                        4.1                         5.8                          45.8                      32.4
Approach LOS                            A                           A                             D                         C
Queue Length 50th (ft)                 32                          56                            83                        87
Queue Length 95th (ft)               m39                           80                          126                       125
Internal Link Dist (ft)             1803                         948                           415                       522
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                     2167                       1811                         537                       742

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Coordination Alternative                            Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                Page 15
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
7: JAMES ST & OAK ST                                                                                                10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR        NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Starvation Cap Reductn                     0                          0                         0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn                      0                          0                         0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                        0                          0                         0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                       0.46                       0.39                      0.49                0.39
Intersection Summary
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 82 (96%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 70
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.81
Intersection Signal Delay: 13.2                               Intersection LOS: B
Intersection Capacity Utilization 80.8%                       ICU Level of Service D
Analysis Period (min) 15
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   7: JAMES ST & OAK ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Coordination Alternative                     Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                         Page 16
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
8: JAMES ST & DEWITT ST                                                                                                      10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR      NBL       NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     54      847        8        1      551      136       24         0       6      179        4       54
Lane Util. Factor              0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95     1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Ped Bike Factor                         1.00                       0.99                        0.99                      0.98
Frt                                    0.999                      0.970                       0.971                     0.969
Flt Protected                          0.997                                                  0.962                     0.964
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0    3524         0        0    3394         0          0   1725        0        0    1733        0
Flt Permitted                          0.863                      0.954                       0.785                     0.757
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0    3049         0        0    3238         0          0   1405        0        0    1333        0
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                          2                         57                           7                        20
Adj. Flow (vph)                  59      921         9       1      599      148       26         0       7      195        4       59
Lane Group Flow (vph)             0      989         0       0      748         0       0        33        0       0      258        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No       No       No       No       No       No        No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left    Right     Left     Left    Right     Left      Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                           0                          0                           0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                           0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                          16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                     Perm                       Perm                       Perm                       Perm
Protected Phases                           2                          2                           4                         4
Permitted Phases                  2                          2                            4                        4
Detector Phase                    2        2                 2        2                   4       4                4        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0               4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              45.0      45.0              45.0     45.0              25.0      25.0             25.0     25.0
Total Split (s)                50.0      50.0      0.0     50.0     50.0      0.0     35.0      35.0     0.0     35.0     35.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              58.8%     58.8%     0.0%    58.8%    58.8%     0.0%    41.2%     41.2%    0.0%    41.2%    41.2%    0.0%
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0       4.0               4.0      4.0               4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0               1.0      1.0               1.0       1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0      -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Recall Mode                  C-Max C-Max                 C-Max C-Max                None      None             None     None
Act Effct Green (s)                  56.3                        56.3                          22.7                      22.7
Actuated g/C Ratio                   0.66                        0.66                          0.27                      0.27
v/c Ratio                            0.49                        0.35                          0.09                      0.70
Control Delay                         4.6                         5.5                          17.5                      35.2
Queue Delay                           0.0                         0.1                           0.0                       0.0
Total Delay                           4.6                         5.6                          17.5                      35.2
LOS                                     A                           A                             B                         D
Approach Delay                        4.6                         5.6                          17.5                      35.2
Approach LOS                            A                           A                             B                         D
Queue Length 50th (ft)                 16                          19                             7                        78
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 84                        122                             19                      117
Internal Link Dist (ft)              948                         191                           347                       578
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)                     2022                       2165                         533                       514

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Coordination Alternative                            Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                Page 17
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
8: JAMES ST & DEWITT ST                                                                                               10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL       WBT     WBR          NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Starvation Cap Reductn                     0                         487                          0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn                      0                           0                          0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                        0                           0                          0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                       0.49                        0.45                       0.06                0.50
Intersection Summary
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 8 (9%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 70
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.70
Intersection Signal Delay: 9.0                                  Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 69.8%                         ICU Level of Service C
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   8: JAMES ST & DEWITT ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Coordination Alternative                       Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                           Page 18
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
9: JAMES ST & SEDGEWICK ST                                                                        10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      NBL      NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    880     152        29      585      103       30
Lane Util. Factor              0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95     1.00     1.00
Ped Bike Factor                0.99                       1.00     0.98
Frt                           0.978                               0.969
Flt Protected                                            0.998    0.963
Satd. Flow (prot)              3427        0        0    3532     1732         0
Flt Permitted                                            0.876    0.963
Satd. Flow (perm)              3427        0        0    3099     1706         0
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                48                                  17
Adj. Flow (vph)                 898     155        30      597      105        31
Lane Group Flow (vph)          1053        0        0      627      136         0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No      No        No       No       No       No
Lane Alignment                  Left   Right      Left     Left     Left    Right
Median Width(ft)                  0                          0       12
Link Offset(ft)                   0                          0        0
Crosswalk Width(ft)              16                         16       16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                                       Perm
Protected Phases                  2                          2        4
Permitted Phases                                     2
Minimum Split (s)              47.0               47.0     47.0     23.0
Total Split (s)                59.0       0.0     59.0     59.0     26.0      0.0
Total Split (%)              69.4%      0.0%    69.4%    69.4%    30.6%     0.0%
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0                4.0      4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0                1.0      1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Act Effct Green (s)            56.0                       56.0     23.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.66                       0.66     0.27
v/c Ratio                      0.46                       0.31     0.28
Control Delay                   5.8                        9.4     23.2
Queue Delay                     0.1                        0.0      0.0
Total Delay                     5.9                        9.4     23.2
LOS                               A                          A        C
Approach Delay                  5.9                        9.4     23.2
Approach LOS                      A                          A        C
Queue Length 50th (ft)           45                         61       34
Queue Length 95th (ft)         114                          82       66
Internal Link Dist (ft)        191                        1357      441
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)            2274                       2042      481
Starvation Cap Reductn          304                          0        0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0                          0        0
Storage Cap Reductn               0                          0        0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.53                       0.31     0.28

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Coordination Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                       Page 19
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
9: JAMES ST & SEDGEWICK ST                                                                        10/7/2011

Intersection Summary
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 1 (1%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 70
Control Type: Pretimed
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.46
Intersection Signal Delay: 8.4                                 Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 59.3%                        ICU Level of Service B
Analysis Period (min) 15

Splits and Phases:   9: JAMES ST & SEDGEWICK ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Coordination Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                       Page 20
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
10: JAMES ST & WILSON ST                                                                          10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      NBL      NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                    902        8       28      595       19       22
Lane Util. Factor              0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95     1.00     1.00
Ped Bike Factor                1.00                       1.00     1.00
Frt                           0.999                               0.928
Flt Protected                                            0.998    0.977
Satd. Flow (prot)              3533        0        0    3532     1689         0
Flt Permitted                                            0.887    0.977
Satd. Flow (perm)              3533        0        0    3138     1688         0
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                 2                                  24
Adj. Flow (vph)                 980       9        30      647       21        24
Lane Group Flow (vph)           989       0         0      677       45         0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No      No        No       No       No       No
Lane Alignment                  Left   Right      Left     Left     Left    Right
Median Width(ft)                 12                         12       12
Link Offset(ft)                   0                          0        0
Crosswalk Width(ft)              16                         16       16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                                       Perm
Protected Phases                  2                          2        4
Permitted Phases                                    2
Detector Phase                    2                 2        2        4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             4.0                4.0      4.0      4.0
Minimum Split (s)              45.0               45.0     45.0     25.0
Total Split (s)                60.0       0.0     60.0     60.0     25.0      0.0
Total Split (%)              70.6%      0.0%    70.6%    70.6%    29.4%     0.0%
Yellow Time (s)                 4.0                4.0      4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0                1.0      1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0
Lead/Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Recall Mode                  C-Max              C-Max C-Max       None
Act Effct Green (s)            73.4                     73.4       11.0
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.86                     0.86       0.13
v/c Ratio                      0.32                     0.25       0.19
Control Delay                   2.0                      0.8       19.2
Queue Delay                     0.0                      0.0        0.0
Total Delay                     2.0                      0.8       19.2
LOS                               A                        A          B
Approach Delay                  2.0                      0.8       19.2
Approach LOS                      A                        A          B
Queue Length 50th (ft)           27                        1          7
Queue Length 95th (ft)           39                      m4          23
Internal Link Dist (ft)       1357                     1013         621
Turn Bay Length (ft)
Base Capacity (vph)            3050                       2709      455

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Coordination Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                       Page 21
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
10: JAMES ST & WILSON ST                                                                          10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      NBL      NBR
Starvation Cap Reductn            0                          0        0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0                          0        0
Storage Cap Reductn               0                          0        0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.32                       0.25     0.10
Intersection Summary
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 16 (19%), Referenced to phase 2:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 70
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.32
Intersection Signal Delay: 2.0                                Intersection LOS: A
Intersection Capacity Utilization 47.1%                       ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   10: JAMES ST & WILSON ST




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Coordination Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                       Page 22
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
11: JAMES ST & TEALL AVE                                                                                                     10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR      NBL       NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                   238       510     176      185       378       34      125       478     101       25      524      120
Lane Util. Factor              1.00     0.95     0.95     1.00     0.95     0.95     0.95      0.95    0.95     0.95     0.95     0.95
Ped Bike Factor                0.99     0.99              0.99     1.00                        1.00                      0.99
Frt                                    0.962                      0.988                       0.978                     0.973
Flt Protected                 0.950                      0.950                                0.991                     0.998
Satd. Flow (prot)             1770      3373        0    1770      3488        0          0   3423        0        0    3403        0
Flt Permitted                 0.950                      0.950                                0.627                     0.909
Satd. Flow (perm)             1754      3373        0    1755      3488        0          0   2162        0        0    3100        0
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                         58                         11                          28                        31
Adj. Flow (vph)                 259      554      191      201      411       37      136       520     110       27      570     130
Lane Group Flow (vph)           259      745        0      201      448        0        0       766       0        0      727       0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No       No       No       No       No       No        No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left    Right     Left     Left    Right     Left      Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                         12                           0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                           0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                          16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turn Type                      Prot                       Prot                      pm+pt                      Perm
Protected Phases                  1        6                 5         2                7         4                         8
Permitted Phases                                                                        4                          8
Detector Phase                    1        6                 5         2                7         4                8        8
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             5.0       5.0               5.0       5.0              5.0       5.0              5.0      5.0
Minimum Split (s)               9.5      22.0               9.5     22.0              10.0      22.0             22.0     22.0
Total Split (s)                20.0      29.0      0.0     17.0     26.0      0.0     10.0      39.0     0.0     29.0     29.0     0.0
Total Split (%)              23.5%     34.1%     0.0%    20.0%    30.6%     0.0%    11.8%     45.9%    0.0%    34.1%    34.1%    0.0%
Yellow Time (s)                 3.5       4.0               3.5       4.0              4.0       4.0              4.0      4.0
All-Red Time (s)                1.0       1.0               1.0       1.0              1.0       1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)           -2.0      -2.0     -1.0     -2.0     -2.0     -1.0     -2.0      -2.0    -1.0     -2.0     -2.0    -1.0
Total Lost Time (s)             2.5       3.0      3.0      2.5      3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Lead/Lag                      Lead        Lag             Lead       Lag             Lead                         Lag      Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Recall Mode                   None     C-Min             None     C-Min             None      None             None     None
Act Effct Green (s)            16.7     28.0              13.9     25.3                        34.6                      34.6
Actuated g/C Ratio             0.20     0.33              0.16     0.30                        0.41                      0.41
v/c Ratio                      0.75     0.65              0.70     0.43                        0.85                      0.57
Control Delay                  47.0     17.7              52.1     21.5                        32.9                      20.3
Queue Delay                     0.0      0.0               0.0      0.0                         0.0                       0.0
Total Delay                    47.0     17.7              52.1     21.5                        32.9                      20.3
LOS                               D        B                 D        C                           C                         C
Approach Delay                          25.3                       31.0                        32.9                      20.3
Approach LOS                               C                          C                           C                         C
Queue Length 50th (ft)           77       74               76        42                        121                         96
Queue Length 95th (ft)         #162      137             m117      m66                        #194                       133
Internal Link Dist (ft)                 1013                       2168                        100                       108
Turn Bay Length (ft)            160                        125
Base Capacity (vph)             364     1152               302     1044                         932                      1279

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Coordination Alternative                            Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                Page 23
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
11: JAMES ST & TEALL AVE                                                                                            10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR        NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Starvation Cap Reductn            0        0                 0        0                         0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn             0        0                 0        0                         0                   0
Storage Cap Reductn               0        0                 0        0                         0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio              0.71     0.65              0.67     0.43                      0.82                0.57
Intersection Summary
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 40 (47%), Referenced to phase 2:WBT and 6:EBT, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 70
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 0.85
Intersection Signal Delay: 27.2                               Intersection LOS: C
Intersection Capacity Utilization 83.3%                       ICU Level of Service E
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   11: JAMES ST & TEALL AVE




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Coordination Alternative                     Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                         Page 24
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                                                                         10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL      EBT      EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR      NBL       NBT     NBR      SBL      SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                      0      574       62       14      470        0       42         0      77      329       72       85
Lane Util. Factor              1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Ped Bike Factor                                  0.96              1.00                        0.98                      0.98
Frt                                             0.850                                         0.913                     0.976
Flt Protected                                                     0.999                       0.983                     0.967
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0     1863     1583        0    1861         0          0   1640        0        0    1732        0
Flt Permitted                                                     0.982                       0.849                     0.729
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0     1863     1522        0    1829         0          0   1416        0        0    1299        0
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                                   63                                           79                        13
Adj. Flow (vph)                   0      586        63      14      480         0      43         0       79     336       73       87
Lane Group Flow (vph)             0      586        63       0      494         0       0       122        0       0      496        0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No       No       No       No       No       No        No      No       No       No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left    Right     Left     Left    Right     Left      Left   Right     Left     Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                          12                         12                           0                         0
Link Offset(ft)                            0                          0                           0                         0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                       16                         16                          16                        16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00
Turning Speed (mph)              15                 9       15                 9       15                 9       15                 9
Turn Type                                       Perm     Perm                       Perm                       Perm
Protected Phases                        124                        124                            3                         3
Permitted Phases                                 124      124                             3                        3
Detector Phase                          124      124      124      124                    3       3                3        3
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)                                                                    8.0       8.0              8.0      8.0
Minimum Split (s)                                                                     22.0      22.0             22.0     22.0
Total Split (s)                  0.0     56.5     56.5     56.5     56.5      0.0     28.5      28.5     0.0     28.5     28.5     0.0
Total Split (%)                0.0%    66.5%    66.5%    66.5%    66.5%     0.0%    33.5%     33.5%    0.0%    33.5%    33.5%    0.0%
Yellow Time (s)                                                                        3.5       3.5              3.5      3.5
All-Red Time (s)                                                                       1.0       1.0              1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)             0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Total Lost Time (s)              4.0      4.5      4.5      4.5      4.5      4.0      4.5       4.5     4.0      4.5      4.5     4.0
Lead/Lag                                                                             Lead      Lead             Lead     Lead
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Recall Mode                                                                         None      None             None     None
Act Effct Green (s)                     52.0     52.0              52.0                        24.0                      24.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                      0.61     0.61              0.61                        0.28                      0.28
v/c Ratio                               0.51     0.07              0.44                        0.27                      1.32
Control Delay                           12.0      3.3               4.0                        11.7                     189.0
Queue Delay                              0.1      0.0               0.7                         0.0                     102.8
Total Delay                             12.1      3.3               4.7                        11.7                     291.9
LOS                                        B        A                 A                           B                         F
Approach Delay                          11.2                        4.7                        11.7                     291.9
Approach LOS                               B                          A                           B                         F
Queue Length 50th (ft)                    71        0                11                          12                     ~234
Queue Length 95th (ft)                 m159        m5                42                          39                      #364
Internal Link Dist (ft)                2168                        128                         159                         62
Turn Bay Length (ft)

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Coordination Alternative                            Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                                Page 25
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                                              10/7/2011



Lane Group                       ø1       ø2       ø4
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)
Lane Util. Factor
Ped Bike Factor
Frt
Flt Protected
Satd. Flow (prot)
Flt Permitted
Satd. Flow (perm)
Satd. Flow (RTOR)
Adj. Flow (vph)
Lane Group Flow (vph)
Enter Blocked Intersection
Lane Alignment
Median Width(ft)
Link Offset(ft)
Crosswalk Width(ft)
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor
Turning Speed (mph)
Turn Type
Protected Phases                  1        2        4
Permitted Phases
Detector Phase
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)             5.0     10.0      5.0
Minimum Split (s)               9.5     22.0      9.5
Total Split (s)                12.0     33.0     11.5
Total Split (%)                14%      39%      14%
Yellow Time (s)                 3.5      3.5      3.5
All-Red Time (s)                1.0      1.0      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)
Total Lost Time (s)
Lead/Lag                       Lead      Lag      Lag
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Recall Mode                  C-Max       Min    None
Act Effct Green (s)
Actuated g/C Ratio
v/c Ratio
Control Delay
Queue Delay
Total Delay
LOS
Approach Delay
Approach LOS
Queue Length 50th (ft)
Queue Length 95th (ft)
Internal Link Dist (ft)
Turn Bay Length (ft)

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Coordination Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                       Page 26
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                                                                10/7/2011



Lane Group                     EBL       EBT     EBR      WBL      WBT      WBR        NBL   NBT    NBR   SBL    SBT     SBR
Base Capacity (vph)                     1140      956              1119                      457                 376
Starvation Cap Reductn                     0        0               309                         0                  56
Spillback Cap Reductn                     53        0                  0                        2                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                        0        0                  0                        0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                       0.54     0.07               0.61                     0.27                1.55
Intersection Summary
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 49 (58%), Referenced to phase 1:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 1.32
Intersection Signal Delay: 88.5                               Intersection LOS: F
Intersection Capacity Utilization 78.0%                       ICU Level of Service D
Analysis Period (min) 15
~ Volume exceeds capacity, queue is theoretically infinite.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   12: JAMES ST & Grant




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Coordination Alternative                     Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                         Page 27
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
12: JAMES ST & Grant                                                                              10/7/2011



Lane Group                       ø1       ø2       ø4
Base Capacity (vph)
Starvation Cap Reductn
Spillback Cap Reductn
Storage Cap Reductn
Reduced v/c Ratio
Intersection Summary




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Coordination Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                       Page 28
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
13: James S & Walgreens                                                                                                   10/7/2011



Lane Group                    EBL2       EBL     EBT      WBT      WBR     WBR2       SBL     SBR     SBR2    SEL     SER       ø3
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                     91       109     780      452      386       10       38       32      12       0       0
Lane Util. Factor              1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Ped Bike Factor                          0.98                      0.84              0.93
Frt                                                               0.850             0.928
Flt Protected                          0.950                                        0.977
Satd. Flow (prot)                 0    1770      1863     1863     1583        0    1689         0       0       0       0
Flt Permitted                          0.367                                        0.977
Satd. Flow (perm)                 0      671     1863     1863     1332        0    1565         0       0       0       0
Satd. Flow (RTOR)                                                      2                8
Adj. Flow (vph)                  93      111      796      461      394        10      39       33      12       0       0
Lane Group Flow (vph)             0      204      796      461      404         0      84         0       0      0       0
Enter Blocked Intersection       No       No       No       No       No       No       No       No      No      No      No
Lane Alignment                  Left     Left     Left     Left    Right    Right     Left    Right   Right    Left   Right
Median Width(ft)                                   12       12                         12                        0
Link Offset(ft)                                     0        0                          0                        0
Crosswalk Width(ft)                                16       16                         16                       16
Two way Left Turn Lane
Headway Factor                 1.00   1.00       1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Turning Speed (mph)               15     15                           9        9       15        9       9      15       9
Turn Type                    custom custom                        Perm
Protected Phases                          1      123         2                            4                                      3
Permitted Phases                 23     23                            2
Detector Phase                   23       1      123         2        2                   4
Switch Phase
Minimum Initial (s)                       5.0              10.0     10.0               5.0                                      8.0
Minimum Split (s)                         9.5              22.0     22.0               9.5                                     22.0
Total Split (s)                61.5      12.0     73.5     33.0     33.0      0.0     11.5      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    28.5
Total Split (%)              72.4%     14.1%    86.5%    38.8%    38.8%     0.0%    13.5%     0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%     34%
Yellow Time (s)                           3.5               3.5      3.5               3.5                                      3.5
All-Red Time (s)                          1.0               1.0      1.0               1.0                                      1.0
Lost Time Adjust (s)             0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0
Total Lost Time (s)              4.5      4.5      4.5      4.5      4.5      4.0      4.5      4.0     4.0    4.0      4.0
Lead/Lag                                Lead                Lag      Lag               Lag                                    Lead
Lead-Lag Optimize?
Recall Mode                            C-Max               Min      Min             None                                      None
Act Effct Green (s)                      64.5    69.0     28.5     28.5               7.0
Actuated g/C Ratio                       0.76    0.81     0.34     0.34              0.08
v/c Ratio                                0.34    0.53     0.74     0.90              0.58
Control Delay                             2.8     3.8     33.4     52.9              50.7
Queue Delay                               0.2     0.9      0.0      0.2               0.0
Total Delay                               3.0     4.7     33.4     53.1              50.7
LOS                                         A       A        C        D                 D
Approach Delay                                    4.4     42.6                       50.7
Approach LOS                                        A        D                          D
Queue Length 50th (ft)                     9       88      146      138                27
Queue Length 95th (ft)                   m11     m85      223      #256               #67
Internal Link Dist (ft)                           128      538                         59                      106
Turn Bay Length (ft)                      75                        150

James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Coordination Alternative                          Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                              Page 29
Lanes, Volumes, Timings
13: James S & Walgreens                                                                                              10/7/2011



Lane Group                    EBL2      EBL       EBT     WBT      WBR    WBR2         SBL    SBR   SBR2   SEL    SER       ø3
Base Capacity (vph)                     606      1512      625      448                146
Starvation Cap Reductn                    88      422        0        0                   0
Spillback Cap Reductn                      0        0        0        1                   0
Storage Cap Reductn                        0        0        0        0                   0
Reduced v/c Ratio                       0.39     0.73     0.74     0.90                0.58
Intersection Summary
Cycle Length: 85
Actuated Cycle Length: 85
Offset: 49 (58%), Referenced to phase 1:EBWB, Start of Yellow
Natural Cycle: 80
Control Type: Actuated-Coordinated
Maximum v/c Ratio: 1.32
Intersection Signal Delay: 23.4                               Intersection LOS: C
Intersection Capacity Utilization 53.4%                       ICU Level of Service A
Analysis Period (min) 15
# 95th percentile volume exceeds capacity, queue may be longer.
    Queue shown is maximum after two cycles.
m Volume for 95th percentile queue is metered by upstream signal.

Splits and Phases:   13: James S & Walgreens




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Coordination Alternative                      Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                          Page 30
Arterial Level of Service
                                                                                                         10/7/2011

Arterial Level of Service: EB JAMES ST
                          Arterial             Flow      Running   Signal     Travel   Dist   Arterial     Arterial
Cross Street              Class               Speed        Time    Delay    Time (s)   (mi)   Speed           LOS
OSWEGO BLVD               III                    30          5.0      6.7       11.7   0.03       9.9            F
STATE ST                  III                    30         14.3     21.6       35.9   0.10      10.2            E
TOWNSEND ST               III                    30         19.7      4.6       24.3   0.15      21.8            C
MCBRIDE ST                III                    30         12.3      2.2       14.5   0.09      21.6            C
CATHERINE ST              III                    30         12.2      1.4       13.6   0.09      22.8            C
LODI ST                   III                    30         22.4     11.0       33.4   0.17      18.0            C
OAK ST                    III                    30         45.3      7.7       53.0   0.36      24.2            B
DEWITT ST                 III                    30         24.7     11.1       35.8   0.19      19.6            C
SEDGEWICK ST              III                    30          8.0      3.5       11.5   0.05      16.1            D
WILSON ST                 III                    30         34.6      6.0       40.6   0.27      24.1            B
TEALL AVE                 III                    30         26.3     29.7       56.0   0.21      13.3            E
Shotwell                  III                    30         54.1      9.9       64.0   0.43      23.9            C
Total                     III                              278.9   115.4      394.3    2.13      19.4            C

Arterial Level of Service: WB JAMES ST
                          Arterial             Flow      Running   Signal     Travel   Dist   Arterial     Arterial
Cross Street              Class               Speed        Time    Delay    Time (s)   (mi)   Speed           LOS
TEALL AVE                 III                    30         54.1     32.2       86.3   0.43      17.8            D
WILSON ST                 III                    30         26.3      4.0       30.3   0.21      24.6            B
SEDGEWICK ST              III                    30         34.6     10.9       45.5   0.27      21.5            C
DEWITT ST                 III                    30          8.0      4.8       12.8   0.05      14.4            D
OAK ST                    III                    30         24.7      4.5       29.2   0.19      24.0            B
LODI ST                   III                    30         45.3     10.4       55.7   0.36      23.0            C
CATHERINE ST              III                    30         22.4      7.5       29.9   0.17      20.2            C
MCBRIDE ST                III                    30         12.2      7.3       19.5   0.09      15.9            D
TOWNSEND ST               III                    30         12.3      8.0       20.3   0.09      15.4            D
STATE ST                  III                    30         19.7     16.1       35.8   0.15      14.8            D
OSWEGO BLVD               III                    30         14.3      5.9       20.2   0.10      18.1            C
Total                     III                              273.9   111.6      385.5    2.10      19.6            C




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour                                   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                             Page 1
Measures of Effectiveness
                                                                       10/7/2011

Network Totals
Number of Intersections                          14
Total Delay (hr)                                151
Stops (#)                                     11715
Average Speed (mph)                              13
Total Travel Time (hr)                          269
Distance Traveled (mi)                         3537
Fuel Consumed (gal)                             321
Fuel Economy (mpg)                             11.0
Unserved Vehicles (#)                           113
Vehicles in dilemma zone (#)                      0
Performance Index                             183.5




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                             Page 2
Arterial Level of Service
                                                                                                         10/7/2011

Arterial Level of Service: EB JAMES ST
                          Arterial             Flow      Running   Signal     Travel   Dist   Arterial     Arterial
Cross Street              Class               Speed        Time    Delay    Time (s)   (mi)   Speed           LOS
OSWEGO BLVD               III                    30          5.0     15.0       20.0   0.03       5.8            F
STATE ST                  III                    30         14.3     26.7       41.0   0.10       8.9            F
TOWNSEND ST               III                    30         19.7      6.4       26.1   0.15      20.3            C
MCBRIDE ST                III                    30         12.3      3.0       15.3   0.09      20.5            C
CATHERINE ST              III                    30         12.2      3.5       15.7   0.09      19.8            C
LODI ST                   III                    30         22.4     17.3       39.7   0.17      15.2            D
OAK ST                    III                    30         45.3     13.6       58.9   0.36      21.8            C
DEWITT ST                 III                    30         24.7      4.2       28.9   0.19      24.3            B
SEDGEWICK ST              III                    30          8.0      8.3       16.3   0.05      11.3            E
WILSON ST                 III                    30         34.6     10.6       45.2   0.27      21.7            C
TEALL AVE                 III                    30         26.3     41.3       67.6   0.21      11.0            E
Shotwell                  III                    30         54.1      9.5       63.6   0.43      24.1            B
Total                     III                              278.9   159.4      438.3    2.13      17.5            D

Arterial Level of Service: WB JAMES ST
                          Arterial             Flow      Running   Signal     Travel   Dist   Arterial     Arterial
Cross Street              Class               Speed        Time    Delay    Time (s)   (mi)   Speed           LOS
TEALL AVE                 III                    30         54.1     37.0       91.1   0.43      16.8            D
WILSON ST                 III                    30         26.3      3.2       29.5   0.21      25.3            B
SEDGEWICK ST              III                    30         34.6      5.9       40.5   0.27      24.2            B
DEWITT ST                 III                    30          8.0      7.3       15.3   0.05      12.1            E
OAK ST                    III                    30         24.7     11.2       35.9   0.19      19.5            C
LODI ST                   III                    30         45.3     23.2       68.5   0.36      18.7            C
CATHERINE ST              III                    30         22.4      7.3       29.7   0.17      20.3            C
MCBRIDE ST                III                    30         12.2      5.3       17.5   0.09      17.7            D
TOWNSEND ST               III                    30         12.3      6.5       18.8   0.09      16.6            D
STATE ST                  III                    30         19.7     27.9       47.6   0.15      11.1            E
OSWEGO BLVD               III                    30         14.3     35.5       49.8   0.10       7.4            F
Total                     III                              273.9   170.3      444.2    2.10      17.0            D




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour                                   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                             Page 1
Measures of Effectiveness
                                                                       10/7/2011

Network Totals
Number of Intersections                          14
Total Delay (hr)                                275
Stops (#)                                     16373
Average Speed (mph)                              10
Total Travel Time (hr)                          412
Distance Traveled (mi)                         4083
Fuel Consumed (gal)                             460
Fuel Economy (mpg)                              8.9
Unserved Vehicles (#)                           326
Vehicles in dilemma zone (#)                      0
Performance Index                             320.9




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                             Page 2
Arterial Level of Service
                                                                                                                     10/7/2011

Arterial Level of Service: EB JAMES ST
                          Arterial              Flow      Running         Signal          Travel   Dist   Arterial     Arterial
Cross Street              Class                Speed        Time          Delay         Time (s)   (mi)   Speed           LOS
OSWEGO BLVD               III                     30          6.7            6.7            13.4   0.04      11.7            E
STATE ST                  III                     30         14.3           21.5            35.8   0.10      10.2            E
TOWNSEND ST               III                     30         19.7           17.5            37.2   0.15      14.2            D
MCBRIDE ST                III                     30         12.3            2.9            15.2   0.09      20.6            C
CATHERINE ST              III                     30         12.2            4.2            16.4   0.09      18.9            C
LODI ST                   III                     30         22.4            5.1            27.5   0.17      21.9            C
OAK ST                    III                     30         45.3           12.0            57.3   0.36      22.4            C
DEWITT ST                 III                     30         24.7            4.6            29.3   0.19      23.9            C
SEDGEWICK ST              III                     30          8.0            8.5            16.5   0.05      11.2            E
WILSON ST                 III                     30         34.6            3.9            38.5   0.27      25.4            B
TEALL AVE                 III                     30         26.3           16.5            42.8   0.21      17.4            D
Shotwell                  III                     30         54.1           17.9            72.0   0.43      21.3            C
Total                     III                               280.6         121.3           401.9    2.14      19.2            C

Arterial Level of Service: WB JAMES ST
                          Arterial              Flow      Running         Signal          Travel   Dist   Arterial     Arterial
Cross Street              Class                Speed        Time          Delay         Time (s)   (mi)   Speed           LOS
TEALL AVE                 III                     30         54.1           15.2            69.3   0.43      22.1            C
WILSON ST                 III                     30         26.3            4.3            30.6   0.21      24.4            B
SEDGEWICK ST              III                     30         34.6            6.8            41.4   0.27      23.7            C
DEWITT ST                 III                     30          8.0           10.1            18.1   0.05      10.2            E
OAK ST                    III                     30         24.7           13.5            38.2   0.19      18.3            C
LODI ST                   III                     30         45.3            4.9            50.2   0.36      25.6            B
CATHERINE ST              III                     30         22.4            7.7            30.1   0.17      20.0            C
MCBRIDE ST                III                     30         12.2            5.3            17.5   0.09      17.7            D
TOWNSEND ST               III                     30         12.3           13.3            25.6   0.09      12.2            E
STATE ST                  III                     30         19.7           10.4            30.1   0.15      17.6            D
OSWEGO BLVD               III                     30         14.3            3.8            18.1   0.10      20.2            C
Total                     III                               273.9           95.3          369.2    2.10      20.4            C




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                      Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                         Page 1
Measures of Effectiveness
                                                                                                10/7/2011

Network Totals
Number of Intersections                           14
Total Delay (hr)                                 111
Stops (#)                                      11690
Average Speed (mph)                               15
Total Travel Time (hr)                           229
Distance Traveled (mi)                          3546
Fuel Consumed (gal)                              292
Fuel Economy (mpg)                              12.1
Unserved Vehicles (#)                             25
Vehicles in dilemma zone (#)                       0
Performance Index                              143.8




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                      Page 2
Arterial Level of Service
                                                                                                                     10/7/2011

Arterial Level of Service: EB JAMES ST
                          Arterial              Flow      Running         Signal          Travel   Dist   Arterial     Arterial
Cross Street              Class                Speed        Time          Delay         Time (s)   (mi)   Speed           LOS
OSWEGO BLVD               III                     30          6.6           27.9            34.5   0.04       4.4            F
STATE ST                  III                     30         14.3           21.6            35.9   0.10      10.2            E
TOWNSEND ST               III                     30         19.7           16.0            35.7   0.15      14.8            D
MCBRIDE ST                III                     30         12.3            4.2            16.5   0.09      19.0            C
CATHERINE ST              III                     30         12.2            9.9            22.1   0.09      14.0            D
LODI ST                   III                     30         22.4            8.5            30.9   0.17      19.5            C
OAK ST                    III                     30         45.3            9.6            54.9   0.36      23.4            C
DEWITT ST                 III                     30         24.7           15.1            39.8   0.19      17.6            D
SEDGEWICK ST              III                     30          8.0            5.4            13.4   0.05      13.8            E
WILSON ST                 III                     30         34.6            3.4            38.0   0.27      25.8            B
TEALL AVE                 III                     30         26.3           23.3            49.6   0.21      15.0            D
Shotwell                  III                     30         54.1           11.4            65.5   0.43      23.4            C
Total                     III                               280.5         156.3           436.8    2.14      17.6            D

Arterial Level of Service: WB JAMES ST
                          Arterial              Flow      Running         Signal          Travel   Dist   Arterial     Arterial
Cross Street              Class                Speed        Time          Delay         Time (s)   (mi)   Speed           LOS
TEALL AVE                 III                     30         54.1           20.1            74.2   0.43      20.7            C
WILSON ST                 III                     30         26.3            2.1            28.4   0.21      26.2            B
SEDGEWICK ST              III                     30         34.6            8.2            42.8   0.27      22.9            C
DEWITT ST                 III                     30          8.0           11.2            19.2   0.05       9.6            F
OAK ST                    III                     30         24.7           11.6            36.3   0.19      19.3            C
LODI ST                   III                     30         45.3           17.6            62.9   0.36      20.4            C
CATHERINE ST              III                     30         22.4           18.1            40.5   0.17      14.9            D
MCBRIDE ST                III                     30         12.2           11.7            23.9   0.09      13.0            E
TOWNSEND ST               III                     30         12.3           19.6            31.9   0.09       9.8            F
STATE ST                  III                     30         19.7           25.1            44.8   0.15      11.8            E
OSWEGO BLVD               III                     30         14.3           17.1            31.4   0.10      11.7            E
Total                     III                               273.9         162.4           436.3    2.10      17.3            D




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative                      Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                         Page 1
Measures of Effectiveness
                                                                                                10/7/2011

Network Totals
Number of Intersections                           14
Total Delay (hr)                                 194
Stops (#)                                      15507
Average Speed (mph)                               12
Total Travel Time (hr)                           331
Distance Traveled (mi)                          4090
Fuel Consumed (gal)                              397
Fuel Economy (mpg)                              10.3
Unserved Vehicles (#)                            129
Vehicles in dilemma zone (#)                       0
Performance Index                              237.5




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Three Lane Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                      Page 2
Arterial Level of Service
                                                                                                                      10/7/2011

Arterial Level of Service: EB JAMES ST
                          Arterial              Flow       Running        Signal           Travel   Dist   Arterial     Arterial
Cross Street              Class                Speed         Time         Delay          Time (s)   (mi)   Speed           LOS
OSWEGO BLVD               III                     30           5.0           6.7             11.7   0.03       9.9            F
STATE ST                  III                     30          14.3          22.5             36.8   0.10       9.9            F
TOWNSEND ST               III                     30          19.7          20.3             40.0   0.15      13.2            E
MCBRIDE ST                III                     30          12.3           7.7             20.0   0.09      15.6            D
CATHERINE ST              III                     30          12.2           1.8             14.0   0.09      22.2            C
LODI ST                   III                     30          22.4           7.1             29.5   0.17      20.4            C
OAK ST                    III                     30          45.3           7.8             53.1   0.36      24.2            B
DEWITT ST                 III                     30          24.7           5.1             29.8   0.19      23.5            C
SEDGEWICK ST              III                     30           8.0           4.6             12.6   0.05      14.7            D
WILSON ST                 III                     30          34.6           1.2             35.8   0.27      27.4            B
TEALL AVE                 III                     30          26.3          23.7             50.0   0.21      14.9            D
Shotwell                  III                     30          54.1          28.8             82.9   0.43      18.5            C
Total                     III                                278.9        137.3            416.2    2.13      18.4            C

Arterial Level of Service: WB JAMES ST
                          Arterial              Flow       Running        Signal           Travel   Dist   Arterial     Arterial
Cross Street              Class                Speed         Time         Delay          Time (s)   (mi)   Speed           LOS
TEALL AVE                 III                     30          54.1          13.4             67.5   0.43      22.7            C
WILSON ST                 III                     30          26.3           1.9             28.2   0.21      26.4            B
SEDGEWICK ST              III                     30          34.6           5.3             39.9   0.27      24.6            B
DEWITT ST                 III                     30           8.0           3.4             11.4   0.05      16.2            D
OAK ST                    III                     30          24.7           9.2             33.9   0.19      20.7            C
LODI ST                   III                     30          45.3           7.3             52.6   0.36      24.4            B
CATHERINE ST              III                     30          22.4           9.7             32.1   0.17      18.8            C
MCBRIDE ST                III                     30          12.2           2.9             15.1   0.09      20.5            C
TOWNSEND ST               III                     30          12.3           4.1             16.4   0.09      19.1            C
STATE ST                  III                     30          19.7          15.4             35.1   0.15      15.1            D
OSWEGO BLVD               III                     30          14.3           2.1             16.4   0.10      22.3            C
Total                     III                                273.9          74.7           348.6    2.10      21.7            C




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hou - Coordination Alternative                      Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                          Page 1
Measures of Effectiveness
                                                                                                 10/7/2011

Network Totals
Number of Intersections                           14
Total Delay (hr)                                  96
Stops (#)                                      10505
Average Speed (mph)                               17
Total Travel Time (hr)                           214
Distance Traveled (mi)                          3537
Fuel Consumed (gal)                              274
Fuel Economy (mpg)                              12.9
Unserved Vehicles (#)                              0
Vehicles in dilemma zone (#)                       0
Performance Index                              125.0




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Morning Peak Hou - Coordination Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                       Page 2
Arterial Level of Service
                                                                                                                   10/7/2011

Arterial Level of Service: EB JAMES ST
                           Arterial             Flow       Running         Signal       Travel   Dist   Arterial     Arterial
Cross Street               Class               Speed         Time          Delay      Time (s)   (mi)   Speed           LOS
OSWEGO BLVD                III                    30           5.0           26.8         31.8   0.03       3.6            F
STATE ST                   III                    30          14.3           18.5         32.8   0.10      11.2            E
TOWNSEND ST                III                    30          19.7           12.0         31.7   0.15      16.7            D
MCBRIDE ST                 III                    30          12.3            4.3         16.6   0.09      18.9            C
CATHERINE ST               III                    30          12.2           14.8         27.0   0.09      11.5            E
LODI ST                    III                    30          22.4           11.1         33.5   0.17      18.0            D
OAK ST                     III                    30          45.3            4.1         49.4   0.36      26.0            B
DEWITT ST                  III                    30          24.7            4.6         29.3   0.19      23.9            C
SEDGEWICK ST               III                    30           8.0            5.8         13.8   0.05      13.4            E
WILSON ST                  III                    30          34.6            2.0         36.6   0.27      26.8            B
TEALL AVE                  III                    30          26.3           17.7         44.0   0.21      16.9            D
Shotwell                   III                    30          54.1           12.0         66.1   0.43      23.2            C
Total                      III                               278.9         133.7        412.6    2.13      18.6            C

Arterial Level of Service: WB JAMES ST
                           Arterial             Flow       Running         Signal       Travel   Dist   Arterial     Arterial
Cross Street               Class               Speed         Time          Delay      Time (s)   (mi)   Speed           LOS
TEALL AVE                  III                    30          54.1           21.5         75.6   0.43      20.3            C
WILSON ST                  III                    30          26.3            0.8         27.1   0.21      27.5            B
SEDGEWICK ST               III                    30          34.6            9.4         44.0   0.27      22.3            C
DEWITT ST                  III                    30           8.0            5.5         13.5   0.05      13.7            E
OAK ST                     III                    30          24.7            5.8         30.5   0.19      23.0            C
LODI ST                    III                    30          45.3           11.7         57.0   0.36      22.5            C
CATHERINE ST               III                    30          22.4           13.2         35.6   0.17      16.9            D
MCBRIDE ST                 III                    30          12.2           11.1         23.3   0.09      13.3            E
TOWNSEND ST                III                    30          12.3            6.8         19.1   0.09      16.4            D
STATE ST                   III                    30          19.7           21.1         40.8   0.15      13.0            E
OSWEGO BLVD                III                    30          14.3           26.1         40.4   0.10       9.1            F
Total                      III                               273.9         133.0        406.9    2.10      18.6            C




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Coordination Alternative                  Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                                       Page 1
Measures of Effectiveness
                                                                                                  10/7/2011

Zone 1 Totals
Number of Intersections                            13
Total Delay (hr)                                  171
Stops (#)                                       14493
Average Speed (mph)                                13
Total Travel Time (hr)                            305
Distance Traveled (mi)                           4022
Fuel Consumed (gal)                               371
Fuel Economy (mpg)                               10.8
Unserved Vehicles (#)                             118
Vehicles in dilemma zone (#)                        0
Performance Index                               211.4




James Street - 2030 Projected Conditions - Evening Peak Hour - Coordination Alternative   Synchro 7 - Report
GTS Consulting                                                                                        Page 2
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    APPENDIX E: SAMPLE ACCESS MANAGEMENT ORDINANCE
Model Access Management Ordinance




            DRAFT
           June, 1998
                                          Acknowledgments


This Model Access Management Ordinance was made possible, in part, by a grant award from the New
York Planning Federation to the towns of Canandaigua and Farmington, under the Rural New York Grant
Program. It evolved from access management ordinances that were developed by and for the Towns of
Canandaigua and Farmington, through a cooperative "team" process involving local planning and
economic development officials and staff from the New York State Department of Transportation's
offices in Rochester (Region 4) and Albany --as part of the Department's Rt. 332 corridor improvement
project and Arterial Access Management initiative.

Realistically, this Ordinance is the product of many contributors and we'd particularly like to thank Pat
Reece, Chair of the Town Planning Board in Canandaigua, Dick Twardokus and Rick Burgwardt of the
NYSDOT design team, Steve Ferranti of SRF & Associates, Don Nims of Clark Patterson Associates,
Greg Barbour of the MRB Group, and Brad Oswald and Lynne Webb of the NYSDOT Corridor
Management Group for their insight into and many comments on the evolving Model. We would also
like to thank Harry Willis of the New York State Department of State, Diane Carlton of the Otsego
County Planning Department and Steve Somlo of the New York State Department of Transportation's
Office of Legal Affairs for their review and thoughtful critiques. It has also benefited from questions and
comments received during reviews of early drafts at the Genesee Transportation Council's Access
Management Seminar, the 1997 New York State Association of Towns' annual meeting, and the 1997
New York Planning Federation's Annual Institute.

Although many individuals obviously helped shape this Model its final form reflects our determination as
to the better path to follow given differing views and objectives. Even reasonable people can disagree ...
so the Model must be evaluated carefully and adapted to the objectives and characteristics of each
community. If there are questions regarding how this might be accomplished, or comments as to how the
Model might be refined, please don't hesitate to contact us.

Steve Munson
New York State Department of Transportation
Mobility Management Section
(518) 457-3429

Ron Brand,
Director of Development
Town of Farmington
(315) 986-8189

Aaron Gagne
Deputy Director of Economic Development, Livingston County
(716) 243-7126

Ken Carlson
New York State Department of Transportation
Corridor Management Group
(518) 457-3429
                                                                  Table of Contents

Introduction................................................................................................................................................... 1

Model Access Management Ordinance ........................................................................................................ 3

Section I.              Purpose ............................................................................................................................... 3

Section II.             Applicability ....................................................................................................................... 3

Section III.            Conformance....................................................................................................................... 4

Section IV.             Definitions .......................................................................................................................... 4

Section V.              Standards and Requirements............................................................................................... 5
        A.              Access Requirements .......................................................................................................... 6
                        1.      General................................................................................................................... 6
                        2.      Driveway Spacing Standards ................................................................................. 6
                                Table 1: Minimum Driveway Spacing Standards .................................................. 7
                                Table 2: Comparison of Driveway Spacing Recommendations ........................... 8
                        3.      Corner Clearance ................................................................................................... 9
                                Table 3: Minimum Corner Clearance Requirements ............................................. 9
                        4.      Driveway Location .............................................................................................. 10
                        5.      Driveway Design ................................................................................................. 11
                                Table 4: Suggested Access Connection Design.................................................. 12
                                Table 5: Generally Adequate Connections Depths for Major Facilities ............. 12
                        6.      Driveway Movements.......................................................................................... 12
                        7.      Interconnection of Parking Areas ........................................................................ 13
            B.          Intersection Spacing.......................................................................................................... 13
                                Table 6: Minimum Intersection Spacing Standards............................................ 13
                                Table 7: Maximum Intersection Spacing Standards ........................................... 14
            C.          Medians and Median Openings ........................................................................................ 14
                                Table 8: Minimum Median Opening Spacing Standards.................................... 14
            D.          Large Developments ......................................................................................................... 15
            E.          Subdivisions...................................................................................................................... 15
            F.          Changes in Access ............................................................................................................ 16
                        1.      Conditional Requirements ................................................................................... 16
                        2.      Non-Conforming Access ..................................................................................... 18
            G.          Incentives .......................................................................................................................... 19
            H.          Variance Standards ........................................................................................................... 19
Introduction
A high quality road system is one of a handful of major assets which determine the vitality and character
of a municipality. And, as with other assets, planning, management and protection are necessary to
ensure that this system is used to its best overall local advantage. Many local governments have,
however, generally ceded these responsibilities to the State; particularly for the most heavily used and
developed roads --intervening only when traffic problems generate substantial popular pressure for
resolution or when the State proposes a project. Yet it is clear that local land-use planning, management
and control can significantly reduce the transportation problems resulting from development, while
promoting growth that is consistent with overall municipal objectives.

The Model Access Management Ordinance provided in this report is based on the premise that "local
land-use management can better balance full development and the safe and efficient movement of traffic".
 It addresses those elements of development which are primarily culpable in the deterioration of local
transportation systems. In determining how to apply this Model six general characteristics should be
recognized.

        First, it is planning oriented. It generally encourages and authorizes a Planning Board to require a
        number of actions by developers. The net result of this is to increase pressure to plan and
        evaluate development proposals on an integrated rather than single-site basis.

        Second, it is neither proscriptive nor detailed. Specifications for many of the elements addressed
        in this Model vary significantly depending on the functions of the roadways it covers, the specific
        type of development proposed and the characteristics, needs and objectives of a community. In
        such cases the Model generally establishes a "goal" and defines how it is to be achieved.

        Third, it is oriented towards environments which are lightly to moderately development. It can be
        applied in heavily developed areas but must be adapted to the specific circumstances --
        particularly as regards spacing standards and methods of implementation.

        Fourth, it is generally organized to be consistent with the structure of local zoning, subdivision
        and site-plan approval codes.

        Fifth, it addresses the basic elements of access management. Other elements which are frequently
        included in local zoning, subdivision, and site-plan approval ordinances should be reviewed to
        ensure consistency with the Model Ordinance, these include:

                frontage requirements --must allow the location of driveways within the minimum
                driveway spacing standards, else the minimum standards may not be enforceable.

                setback requirements -- reasonable setbacks provide for the development of pedestrian
                and transit facilities as well as potential widening of the road.

                lot depths requirements -- consistent lot depths in commercial areas provide an
                opportunity to develop rear service or access roads. These can be important in providing
                access between retail or commercial facilities as full build-out occurs.
                buffer requirements -- many local ordinances require the construction of "impenetrable"
                buffer areas between retail and commercial facilities. These need to be reviewed and, if


                                                     1
                 necessary, revised to reflect the cross-access driveway and inter-connected parking
                 requirements of the Model Ordinance.

                 sign and lighting standards -- Lighting and signs are necessary to provide drivers with
                 advance warning of businesses and a clear view of how they are to enter, exit or move
                 between parking areas. Inadequate sign regulations can create visual clutter that is both
                 unattractive and distracting --creating unsafe driving conditions.

        Finally, it is an extension of the matters addressed by municipal zoning and, thus, can be adapted
        and applied to its greatest effect only in communities which have zoning.

It should also be noted that in many areas access management plans have included elements that are
specifically intended to enhance the aesthetic development of commercial areas, and specifically
pedestrian facilities (sidewalks, rest areas, seating, and the like), landscaping and architectural standards.

This is a only a model and it must be adapted to meet the needs and objectives of a community.
Regardless of the specific application (e.g. community-wide or within an overlay zone) or process
followed, a detailed review of existing zoning, subdivision, and site-plan approval ordinances must be
conducted. This review has 3 general objectives: (i) to assist in determining the best method of
implementation; (ii) to eliminate conflicts and ensure conformity between the language and requirements
of the Model and those contained in existing ordinances; and (iii) to eliminate redundancy --and thereby
reduce complexity and the effort and costs potentially associated with adaptation.

Finally, additional information and discussion of a number of issues that might be used to expand or adapt
the Model Ordinance are provided, in italicized print, in the appropriate sections.




                                                       2
Model Access Management Ordinance
                                   Local Law Number XX of 199X
                                TOWN OF XX Access Management Law

Section I.      Purpose

The purpose of this Ordinance is to provide for safe and efficient travel along public roads, prevent the
adverse social and aesthetic impacts associated with strip road frontage development, and promote
development which harmonizes with the objectives of the TOWN OF XX by providing clear and
consistent access management standards to the development of properties abutting public roads.

        (Cite the section of State Law providing implementation authorization.)

Section II.     Applicability

This Ordinance shall apply to all properties abutting public roads or with direct access or common
connections to public roads within the boundaries of the INSERT SPECIAL DISTRICT NAME created
by LOCAL LAW OR RESOLUTION --TITLE, NUMBER AND DATE.

        A variety of approaches might be used to implement or adapt this Model Ordinance.
        Ideally, access management requirements would flow from a Comprehensive Plan which
        addresses transportation needs and land-use planning and management on a broad
        basis. In practice, however, the majority of municipalities addressing access
        management have focused on specific corridors and/or discrete areas and the imposition
        of zoning, subdivision and site-plan requirements within an overlay zone, as was the case
        in the draft ordinance prepared for the Town of Farmington. This is anticipated to be
        the most common approach and so the Model has followed it. Nonetheless, it has
        drawbacks, specifically in that it can create undesirable pressure outside of the overlay
        zone and fails to address overall transportation needs and objectives --which are best
        considered at a "systems" level.

        An alternative approach is to incorporate access management within existing zoning,
        subdivision and site-plan approval requirements, as was done for the draft code prepared
        for the Town of Canandaigua. In this case, specific elements from this Model were rolled
        into the zoning provisions for retail, commercial and industrial districts; the subdivision
        requirements were placed into the subdivision chapter and applied to all non-minor
        subdivisions; and, general access requirements were incorporated within existing
        subsections of the zoning code which addressed related issues including parking
        requirements, street layout and the like.

        Other types of application are also possible. The Town of Penfield, for example, has
        applied access management on a property-by-property basis within a relatively small
        overlay zone. Alternatively, it appears that the Town of Pittsford will incorporate access
        management as "design guidelines" applicable to the short commercial stretch of
        Monroe Ave.




                                                     3
Section III.    Conformance

The location and design of driveways and other site layout, parking and access management conditions
shall conform to all Federal, State and local requirements, including and not limited to those established
in this Ordinance. Further, the requirements of this Ordinance are not to be substituted for the zoning,
subdivision and site plan approval provisions provided in CHAPTERS XX, XX AND XX OF THE
TOWN OF XX but are to be superimposed over such provisions and should be considered as additional
requirements.

Section IV.     Definitions

        The definitions contained in this Model Ordinance do not include those that are generally
        already included in Municipal codes. They must be compared with the definitions within
        municipal codes and any differences need to be reconciled.

Access - A way or means of approach to provide vehicular or pedestrian entrance or exit to a property.

Access Connection - Any driveway, street, turnout or other means of providing for the movement of
vehicles to or from the public road system or between abutting sites.

Access Management - The process of providing and managing reasonable access to land development
while preserving the flow of traffic in terms of safety, capacity, and speed.

Corner Clearance - The distance from an intersection of a public or private road to the nearest access
connection, measured from the closest edge of the driveway pavement to the closest edge of the road
pavement.

Cross Access - A service road or driveway providing vehicular access between two or more contiguous
sites so the driver need not enter the public road system.

Driveway - Any entrance or exit used by vehicular traffic to or from land or buildings abutting a road.

Driveway, Shared - A driveway connecting two or more contiguous properties to the public road system.

Functional Area (Intersection) - The area beyond the physical intersection of two roads that comprises
decision and maneuver distance plus any required vehicle storage length.

Functional Classification - A system used to group public roads into classes according to their purpose in
moving vehicles and providing access to abutting properties.

Nonconforming Access - Features of the access system of a property that existed prior to the effective
date of this Ordinance and that do not conform with the requirements of this Ordinance.

Peak Hour Trips (PHT) - A weighted average vehicle trip generation rate during the hour of highest
volume of traffic entering and exiting the site in the morning (a.m.) or the afternoon (p.m.).




                                                             4
Reasonable Access: The minimum number of access connections, direct or indirect, necessary to provide
safe access to and from a public road, as consistent with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance and any
other applicable plans and policies of the TOWN.

Restrictive Medians - A physical barrier in the roadway that separates traffic traveling in the opposite
directions, such as a concrete barrier or landscaped island.

Road - A way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as a "street", "highway", "thoroughfare",
"parkway", "through-way", "avenue", "boulevard", "lane", "cul-de-sac", "place", or otherwise
designated, and includes the entire area within the right-of-way.

Road, Arterial - Roads serving comparatively large volumes of high speed (45 miles per hour or greater),
long-distance or through traffic and which also provide access to abutting properties.

Road, Collector - Roads which provide access to abutting properties and which link development roads,
collector roads, or other local roads to major traffic roads.

Roads, Development - Roads which are specifically constructed or intended to provide access to abutting
properties for residential purposes or other high density uses as determined by the underlying zoning.

Road, Service (also Access Road) - A public or private road, auxiliary to and normally located parallel to
a controlled access facility, that maintains local road continuity and provides access to properties adjacent
to the controlled access facility.

Temporary Access - Provision of direct access to a road until that time when adjacent properties develop,
in accordance with a joint access agreement or frontage road plan.

Section V.      Standards and Requirements

        One of the most important objectives of access management is reducing conflicts,
        particularly along the most heavily traveled roadways. The best methods of achieving a
        reduction in conflicts is by reducing the number of conflict points and separating through
        from local traffic. The State accomplishes this by purchasing access rights along higher
        functional class facilities (e.g. the interstate highways).

        Municipal governments can bring land-use development and transportation into balance,
        and also reduce conflict points, through appropriate limitations to the number of
        driveways to individual properties and driveway spacing requirements. Conflicts can be
        further reduced along the most heavily traveled roads by ensuring that access is provided
        to the lowest functional class road serving the proposed development as well as
        establishing provisions for vehicles to move between parking areas to access abutting
        properties --rather than along the road.




                                                      5
A.   Access Requirements

     1.     General

            a.        The site layout, location and design of driveways, parking, and other access
                      management requirements should be based on full permissible development of a
                      property.

            b.        Driveways should be limited to one per property. More than one driveway may
                      be permitted if:

                      i.      the additional driveway(s) does not degrade traffic operations and safety
                              on State or local roads; and

                      ii.     the additional driveway(s) will improve the safe and efficient movement
                              of traffic between the property and the road.

            c.        Driveways to properties with frontage on two or more roads shall be provided to
                      the road with the lowest functional classification serving the proposed use of the
                      property.

            d.        Properties with frontage on two or more roads do not have the right to driveways
                                       to all roads.

            e.        Driveways may be required to be located so as to provide shared driveways
                      and/or cross access driveways with an abutting property or properties.

                      i.      Shared driveways and/or cross access driveways shall be of sufficient
                              width (minimum 20 feet, 6.0 meters) to accommodate two way travel for
                              automobiles and service and loading vehicles. Wider driveways may be
                              required to serve traffic to major generators and/or large vehicles.

                      ii.     Shared driveways, cross access driveways, interconnected parking, and
                              private roads constructed to provide access to properties internal to a
                              subdivision shall be recorded as an easement and shall constitute a
                              covenant running with the land. Operating and maintenance agreements
                              for these facilities shall be recorded with the deed.

     2.     Driveway Spacing Standards

            a.        Driveway spacing standards shall apply to driveways located on the same side of
                      a road.




                                                  6
        b.      Driveway spacing is to be measured along the road from the closest edge or
                curbline of the driveway pavement to the closest edge or curbline of the next
                driveway.

        c.       Driveways shall be located so as to meet or exceed the driveway spacing
                 standards shown in Table 1.
                    Table 1: Minimum Driveway Spacing Standards
                       Development Size in Peak Hour Trips, PHT
    Road                  Small                Moderate            Large
    Classification        0-150 PHT            151-300 PHT         >300 PHT
    Arterial              330 feet             440 feet            550 feet
    Collector             220 feet             330 feet            440 feet
    Access or                   60 percent of the minimum frontage requirement
    Development


                i.      PHT, Peak Hour Trips, will be determined through application of the
                        most current Institute of Transportation Engineers Trip Generation
                        methods and statistics. In general, the determination of Peak Hour Trips
                        is obtained by multiplying the average vehicle trip end rate for the
                        proposed development during the p.m. peak hour of the proposed
                        development or the p.m. peak hour of adjacent road traffic, whichever is
                        greater, times the appropriate multiplier for the development as
                        determined by the type and scale of development. Another methodology
                        or other statistics for determination of Peak Hour Trips may be used with
                        permission from the TOWN Planning Board,.

                ii.     PHT, Peak Hour Trips, should be based on full build-out of the property.

                iii.    The larger of the minimum driveway spacing standards for the proposed
                        development or for existing developments at abutting properties will
                        apply. Driveways for in-fill development must meet the driveway
                        spacing standards to abutting properties on both sides.

Driving spacing is one of the fundamental elements of access management. There are four
factors which determine generally appropriate driveway spacing: the functional class of the
road, traffic speed and volume, and trip generation by the proposed development. Application of
all four factors results in a highly complex system of driveway spacing and most states have
based driveway spacing standards on speed or a simple combination of speed and functional
class (the latter include Florida and Oregon), as shown in Table 2.

Although the standards provided in other states may be simpler to apply than the standards
proposed in this Ordinance they do not discriminate between small and large traffic generators
and, thus, may penalize small developers or shift land-use "demand" away from areas that are
targeted for development. Speed is, nonetheless, a principal determinant of driveway spacing and
the standards provided elsewhere are alternatives to the system provided in this Model. Those
used in Colorado and Iowa are based on stopping sight distance and provide a particularly good
alternative.


                                            7
          Table 2: Comparison of Driveway Spacing Recommendations

      Summary of Access Spacing for Various Technical Criteria, in feet (1)
Criteria /// Speed (MPH)          30         35        40         45      50
Stopping Sight Distance           200        250       325        400 475
Sight Distance, Turning           375                  460        575 700
Sight Distance, Crossing          290        340       390        440 480
Min. Right Turn Conflict Overlap 100         150       200        300 400
Maximize Egress Capacity          320        450       620        860 1,125

    Existing, Proposed or Recommended Driveway Spacing Standards (feet)
State /// Speed (MPH)            30          35         40       45     50
New Jersey                       125         150        185      230 275
South Carolina                   100         150        200      250 300
Colorado                         200         250        325      400 475
Iowa                             200         250        325      400 475
Florida                          245         245        440      440 660
Oregon                           Regional Facilities: Urban 300, Rural 500
                                 District Facilities: Urban 150, Rural 300
Source: "Driveway and Intersection Spacing" Transportation Research Board Circular #456, March 1996, TRB/NRC.


In order to accommodate safe and efficient movement of traffic in balance with the rights of
developers this Model Ordinance proposes minimum spacing standards based on the functional
class of the road and the size of a proposed development in terms of peak hour trip generation.
Larger minimum spacings are provided for higher functional class roads --which have been
constructed principally to serve through traffic and are intended to function at higher speeds.
Larger spacings are, similarly, required for larger developments --and these are likely to be
capable of absorbing large frontage requirements. Conversely, lower minimums have been
proposed for lower functional class roads --which are designed principally to accommodate
development and often function at lower speeds. Similarly, smaller standards have been set for
smaller developments, which are often incapable of absorbing the cost of large frontages. (At the
same time, developments which require a small lot but generate a large volume of traffic may be
accommodated by combined development or through shared driveways or cross access systems.)
To make this type of structure work planners must:

*         ensure that the spacings can be accommodated within existing or proposed frontage
          requirements along each functional class of road, and

*         require developers to evaluate how their driveway location will affect opportunities to
          develop upstream and downstream properties.



                                                        8
Desirably, minimum frontage requirements (established only through zoning) would meet or
exceed the lowest minimum driveway spacing requirement, else in areas that are fully developed
the minimum spacing standard might well be unenforceable. In practice, properties in areas that
are lightly developed or undeveloped generally have relatively large frontages and are capable of
meeting minimum spacing requirements; or, as required in Section V. E., must have an access
plan that meets the requirements of the Model Ordinance before a subdivision is approved.

The driveway spacing standards proposed in the Ordinance may be difficult to apply in areas
that are heavily developed as lot frontage and existing driveway spacing are generally less than
the standards proposed in this Model. Where the spacing of existing driveways is below the
proposed minimums, two general approaches are possible:

*       spacing standards can be maintained at relatively high levels and requirements for
        retrofit can be applied to developed properties,

*       standards can be based on obtaining the maximum available spacing between existing
        driveways at developed properties and new driveways at infill properties.

As a general rule, however, redevelopment provides the best opportunity to improve access
management, generally, in highly developed areas. Those localities addressing access
management in highly developed areas generally establish a plan which identifies desirable
access improvements, and then links implementation of the plan to specific permit actions --such
as may be required for redevelopment or a change or upgrade of use at a site.

3.      Corner Clearance

        a.      Corner clearance is to be measured along the road from the closest edge or
                curbline of the driveway pavement to the closest edge or curbline of the road
                pavement.

                Where road widening is planned or anticipated corner clearance should be
                increased to provide for the width of the additional lane or lanes.

        b.      Driveways for corner properties shall meet or exceed the minimum corner
                clearance requirements, as specified in Table 3:

Corner properties present special problems because they are extremely attractive to high volume
peak-hour traffic businesses (e.g. gas stations, mini-marts and fast food franchises) whose
designs often create conflict areas that overlap with the conflict area of the intersection. The
standards proposed in the Model Ordinance are consistent with those enacted in other states. In
practice, however, traffic safety alone would dictate larger spacing. In evaluating site
development plans for corner properties Planners should be guided by the following principles:

*       driveways should be located outside the functional area of the intersection or, if this is
        not possible, driveways should be placed as far as possible from the intersection.
                       Table 3: Minimum Corner Clearance Requirements

     Type of Driveway, and         Partial access: right turns in   Full access: all directional
     driveway movements            and/or out only                  movements

     Minimum Clearance             110 feet 9                       220 feet
*       driveways which allow left turns in and out should not be allowed where left-turn
        vehicles must cross three or more lanes or two lanes and a center-left-turn-lane.

*       cross access should be available to abutting properties.

4.      Driveway Location

        a.      Driveway location will be based on a site plan which has been approved by the
                TOWN Planning Board in consultation with the TOWN Engineer and/or the
                TOWN Highway Superintendent.

        b.      For the purpose of driveway locations, median openings shall be treated as
                intersections and driveways to properties opposing a median opening shall be
                located so as to exceed the minimum corner clearance standards. This
                requirement shall be waived where the median opening is specifically
                constructed or reconstructed to provide vehicular access to such properties.

        c.      Driveways shall be located so as to meet or exceed the minimum driveway
                spacing standards and the minimum corner clearance standards.

        d.      The TOWN Planning Board may allow the location of driveways at less than the
                minimum driveway spacing standards or corner clearance standards, if:

                i.      a dual-driveway system, cross-access driveway system or shared
                        driveway is proposed and this improves the safe and efficient movement
                        of traffic between the property and the road; or,

                ii.     a driveway or driveways could be located so as to meet the minimum
                        driveway spacing standards and corner clearance standards, but the
                        characteristics of the property or the physical or operational
                        characteristics of the road are such that a change of location will improve
                        the safe and efficient movement of traffic between the property and the
                        road; or,

                iii.    conformance with the driveway spacing standards or corner clearance
                        standards imposes undue and exceptional hardship on the property
                        owner.

The safe and efficient movement of traffic along a road and between the road and a
development are the dominant considerations in driveway location. Minimum driveway
spacing standards are designed to achieve a general reduction in the number and density
of driveways along a road. In practice, however, the location of a driveway or driveways
at a specific site is affected by many other factors, and these may dictate locations which
are less than or exceed the proposed minimum spacing. These might include factors that
make it undesirable to place a driveway so as to meet the spacing standards, including
sight distance, road grade and geometry, and environmental or historical amenities.
They might also include alternative access designs which contribute to the safe and


                                            10
     efficient movement of traffic above and beyond what might be achieved by spacing alone,
     including development of a dual-drive system or locating a driveway so as to enable the
     interconnection of abutting or rear properties.

             e.      For properties unable to meet the minimum driveway spacing standards or corner
                     clearance standards, a temporary driveway may be granted.

     The granting of a temporary driveway would normally be conditioned on obtaining access to a
     planned access road or through a shared driveway, cross-access driveway or unified circulation
     system with an abutting property, in the future. Specific conditions for closure of the temporary
     driveway should be attached to the site plan approval, including a target date.

             f.      For properties unable to meet the minimum corner clearance requirements,
                     driveways shall be located as far as practicable from the intersection. In such
                     cases, driveway movements may be restricted and only one driveway will be
                     permitted along the road frontage not meeting the minimum corner clearance
                     requirement.

5.   5.      Driveway Design

             a       Driveways shall be designed so as to provide for the safe and efficient movement
                     of traffic between the roadway and the site, and to eliminate the potential for the
                     queuing of vehicles along the roadway due to congestion in or at the driveway.

             b.      Vehicle circulation systems on the site shall be designed so as to provide for the
                     safe and efficient movement of traffic between the driveway and the site.

             c.      Driveway width, radii, flare, throat length, internal circulation systems, and other
                     design elements for driveways to developments generating more than 150 peak
                     hour trips shall be based upon traffic, engineering and design data provided by a
                     traffic engineer/consultant who is recognized and accepted by the TOWN
                     Planning Board. In the event that a traffic engineer/consultant is not provided the
                     TOWN shall have the right to retain such traffic engineer/consultant at the cost of
                     the applicant.

     Inadequate driveway design is commonly implicated in traffic safety problems, often
     manifested by the development of queues along the road behind a driveway. Appropriate
     driveway designs vary substantially, however, depending on the scale of development, the
     volume and type of vehicles using the driveway, site and road conditions, and other
     factors. The Model Ordinance has opted for a simple approach by providing an
     objective, defining responsibility, and stating how the appropriate design is to be
     determined.

     More specific approaches are possible. The Florida Department of Transportation
     Standard Index's design recommendations, for example, shown in Table 4, provide
     guidelines for driveway width, flare, radii, angle, and divisional islands that can applied
     to a broad range of situations and are relatively easy to incorporate to an access
     management ordinance. Virgil Stover has provided similar guidance for connection
     depths, throat length, as shown in Table 5. (Additional assistance in establishing

                                                          11
appropriate driveway designs can also generally be provided by the County Highway
Department and the Traffic and Safety Division of the New York State Department of
Transportation.)




6.     Driveway Movements

       a.      Driveway movements (cross, left turn in, left turn out, right turn in, and right turn
               out) may be restricted so as to provide for the safe and efficient movement of
               traffic between the road and the property.

       b.      Each driveway is to be designed and constructed to provide only the allowable
               movements and physically discourage prohibited movements.

7.     Interconnection of Parking Areas



                                                   12
             a.      Adjacent properties may be required to provide a cross access driveway and
                     pedestrian access to facilitate circulation between sites.

             b.      Shared parking is encouraged. Shared parking shall be permitted a reduction in
                     required parking spaces if peak parking demand periods at interconnected
                     developments do not occur at the same time.

             c.      On site vehicular circulation systems shall be designed so as to facilitate use of
                     cross access driveways.

             d.      Cross access driveways shall be recorded as an easement and shall constitute a
                     covenant running with the land. Operating and maintenance agreements for these
                     facilities shall be recorded with the deed.

B.   Intersection Spacing

     1.      Intersection spacing shall be measured from the centerline of the proposed connecting
             roadway to the centerline of the next connecting roadway or to the centerline of a
             signalized driveway, whichever is closest.

     2.      Minimum intersection spacing standards are established so as to provide for the efficient
             movement of traffic. Minimum intersection spacing shall be as set out in Table 6:




     Large minimum intersection spacing standards contribute primarily to the efficient flow of traffic
     and reduce travel time. The minimums proposed in this Model Ordinance also reflects the need
     to provide safe and expeditious access to properties abutting public roads.

     3.      Maximum intersection spacing standards are provided to ensure an orderly pattern of
             land-use development and the creation of a safe and efficient traffic circulation system
             serving development.

             a)      The establishment of intersections at locations at less than the maximum spacing
                     standard shall be applied as an element of the site plan review process, or as part
                     of the subdivision approval process, or prior to subdivision or site plan approval
                     on the TOWN/COUNTY official map.

             b)      Maximum intersection spacing shall be as set out in Table 7:




                                                 13
     An efficient road network provides for both efficient traffic circulation and development.
      Ideally, the development of a local road network would evolve from the transportation
     element of a local Comprehensive Plan: which identifies the location of roads and
     intersections, the functional purpose of each road to be developed, and the circumstances
     or phasing under which such roads or intersections would actually be built. All too
     often, however, residential and commercial development preempts such plans and
     displaces the logical location of roads and intersections. The results of such
     displacement can be unfortunate and may include land-locked properties and overly
     expensive fixes to local traffic circulation and safety problems. Maximum intersection
     standards can be applied (even in the absence of a local transportation plan) to guide the
     development of a logical and efficient local road network.

C.   Medians and Median Openings

     1.      The type, location and length of medians on public roads shall be determined by the
             entity having jurisdiction over such roads. This determination will be made in
             consultation with the TOWN Planning Board and will be based on existing and projected
             traffic conditions; the type, size, and extent of development and traffic generated by
             development; traffic control needs; and other factors.

     2.      The minimum spacing between median openings shall be as shown in Table 8:




     3.      Median openings intended to serve development must meet or exceed the minimum
             median opening spacing standards and must also be justified by a traffic impact analysis
             approved by the entity having jurisdiction over such roads, in consultation with the
             TOWN Planning Board, or the TOWN Planning Board where driveways are proposed to
             connect to TOWN roads. The cost for preparation of the traffic impact analysis and
             construction of the median opening or openings, including installation and operation of
             signals and other improvements where warranted, shall be born by the applicant.

D.   Large Developments


     1.      Large Developments are developments which generate more than 300 Peak Hour Trips.
             For purposes of this subsection Large Developments shall include residential and mixed

                                                14
             used subdivisions whose combined trip generation from all properties exceeds 150 Peak
             Hour Trips and such other uses as will, in the opinion of a qualified transportation
             engineer, detrimentally impact the safe and efficient movement of traffic.

     2.      Large developments shall be required to mitigate the traffic impacts of their development.
              Required mitigation may include but is not limited to the construction of signals, turning
             lanes, medians, combined and shared driveways, and service or access roads as well as
             implementation of transit improvements and/or traffic demand management strategies.

     3.      Required mitigation will be established by the TOWN Planning Board through a SEQRA
             review and/or Transportation Impact Study (TIS) as determined by the TOWN Planning
             Board.

     4.      It shall be the developer's responsibility to provide the SEQRA review or Transportation
             Impact Study, as directed by the Town Planning Board.

     5.      It shall be the developer's responsibility to provide the required mitigation.

     6.      Phased mitigation may be allowed where phased development is proposed.

     Individual small- to moderate-sized developments seldom generate traffic impacts which
     warrant immediate mitigation. Over time, however, the cumulative impacts of such
     developments place tremendous stress on the transportation environment, and often
     inhibit solutions to relieve this stress. By-and-large, this Model Ordinance addresses
     cumulative development.

     Large developments, however, require specific and individual attention because their
     traffic demands, alone, may actually exceed the capacity of some road local road systems
     but often reduce the level of service --even on major roads. The Model Ordinance simply
     reinforces existing practices in many municipalities by requiring that such developments
     evaluate and mitigate any impacts that they may cause.

E.   Subdivisions

     1.      Planned access shall be provided for properties which are the result of subdivisions
             occurring after the effective date of this Ordinance.

     2.      Planned access shall address the provisions of this Ordinance, other State and Local
             requirements, and the following:

             i.      Properties which are the result of a subdivision do not have the right of
                     individual and exclusive access to State and local roads. The number of
                     driveways or other connections shall be the minimum number necessary to
                     provide reasonable access to these properties, not the maximum available for the
                     frontage.

             ii.     Access shall be provided to the road with the lowest functional classification
                     serving the proposed development.


                                                  15
             iii.    Access should be internalized. Access to properties within a subdivision should
                     be obtained from an access road or interior road.

             iv.     If the property which is proposed to be subdivided has frontage on two or more
                     roads, internal properties should share access to such roads.

             v.      The access system for the proposed subdivision should be coordinated with
                     existing, proposed and planned streets outside the subdivision.

     3.      Shared driveways, cross access driveways, interconnected parking, and private roads
             constructed to provide access to properties internal to a subdivision shall be recorded as
             an easement and shall constitute a covenant running with the land. Operating and
             maintenance agreements for these facilities should be recorded with the deed.

     In lightly to moderately developed areas property sizes are likely to be large and, hence,
     property owners may be attracted to subdivide their properties in order to maximize real
     estate income. Planned access as a requirement for subdivision approval is one of the
     best methods of reducing the impacts of subdivision traffic on the local road system while
     ensuring orderly development. Three general principles should guide the development of
     subdivision access plans:

     *       reduce the number of direct connections to higher functional class roads
             (perhaps collectors but certainly arterials) by providing internal roads and
             requiring driveways to these roads;

     *       where potential subdivisions abut 2 or more roads, distribute traffic by requiring
             connections to all roads and developing a circulation system that provide all
             properties with reasonable access to such roads; and,

     *       where potential subdivisions abut other undeveloped properties provide
             easements linking the internal circulation system to the abutting property. This
             allows for the connection of "future" roads (or parking areas).

F.   Changes in Access

     1.      Conditional Requirements. For developments taking place after the effective date of this
             Ordinance:

             a.      The TOWN Planning Board may establish provisions for and require future
                     alteration of the property layout, the location and design of driveways, parking,
                     and other access features based on phased development, additional development
                     or a change in use of a property, or development of or a change in use at an
                     abutting property.

             b.      On completion of a side, access or service road abutting a property with a
                     driveway connection to a Major Traffic Road, the TOWN Planning Board may



                                                 16
                require a driveway or driveways to the side, access or service road and closure of
                the driveway connection to the Major Traffic Road.

                The TOWN Planning Board may waive this requirement if:

                i.      the property shares a driveway or dual-driveway system to the Major
                        Traffic Road with an adjacent property or properties; and/or

                ii.     driveway movements from the driveway to the Major Traffic Road are
                        restricted or the TOWN Planning Board determines that road
                        improvements are warranted and the property owner agrees to construct
                        such improvements.

        c.      For any change or upgrade of use of a property which requires a TOWN permit
                or approval and increases Peak Hour Trips, the TOWN Planning Board may:

                i.      require the closure and relocation or consolidation of driveways so as to
                        meet the minimum driveway spacing standard for the new level of Peak
                        Hour Trips;

                ii.     require shared driveways and cross-access driveways with abutting
                        properties; and,

                iii.    impose property-layout and parking requirements which allow for the
                        circulation of traffic between abutting properties.

The Model Ordinance contains requirements that may not be immediately necessary but
will be desirable and may be necessary once development approaches full build-out. The
short-term costs of such requirements may be difficult to justify in respect to immediate
benefits and may actually inhibit development. To get around such problems the Model
Ordinance enables local governments to incorporate provisional requirements, generally
to the site-plan approval. These changes would then be implemented once certain
threshold conditions occur; for example, once traffic volumes reach a certain level, or
development occurs at an abutting site, or a rear access or service road is constructed.

2.      Non-Conforming Access

        a.      When a property owner of a property with an existing, non-conforming driveway
                or driveways, as of the effective date of this Ordinance, applies for a permit to
                upgrade or change the use of the property, the TOWN Planning Board will
                determine whether it is necessary and appropriate to retrofit the existing
                driveway or driveways.

        b.      The property owner may be required to establish a retrofit plan. The objectives
                of the retrofit plan will be to minimize the traffic and safety impacts of
                development by bringing the number, spacing, location, and design of driveways
                into conformance with the standards and requirements of this Ordinance, to the



                                           17
                     extent possible without imposing undue or inequitable hardship on the property
                     owner. The retrofit plan may include:

                     i.      elimination of driveways,

                     ii.     realignment or relocation of driveways,

                     iii.    provision of shared driveways and/or cross access driveways,

                     iv.     reversal of access (e.g. installation of a driveway to a rear access road),

                     v.      restriction of vehicle movements (e.g. elimination of left turns in and
                             out),

                     vi      relocation of parking,

                     vii.    traffic demand management (e.g. a reduction in peak hour trips),

                     viii.   signalization, or

                     ix.     such other changes as may enhance traffic safety.

             b.      The requirements of the retrofit plan will be incorporated as conditions to the
                     permit for the change or upgrade of use and the property owner will be
                     responsible for the retrofit.

     As noted in the Introduction the Model Ordinance generally applies in lightly to
     moderately developed areas. Pre-existing developments within these areas almost
     always have access features which are inconsistent with the requirements of the Model.
     It is generally unreasonable and difficult to impose immediate and potentially expensive
     access retrofits on such developments --unless that is the specific intent of an access
     management plan which has been implemented by popular mandate. The Model resolves
     this problem by authorizing the Planning Board to work with the property owner or
     developer to identify and implement (or require) necessary access changes. Four
     potential triggers are generally possible:

     *       when the property owner or developer applies for a permit to enlarge, upgrade
             or change the property use;

     *       when the property owner or developer applies for a new access or highway
             permit;

     *       when an abutting property is developed or changes in use and the property
             owner or developer of the abutting property wishes or is willing to share a
             driveway and/or interconnect parking areas; and

     *       when a service or access road is constructed or the front road is reconstructed.

G.   Incentives

                                                 18
     1.     In order to ensure the safe and efficient movement of traffic along a road and between the
            road and properties abutting the road, shared driveways, cross access driveways, access
            and service roads, internal circulation systems, and interconnected parking are
            encouraged.

     2.     The TOWN Planning Board may grant a property owner adjustments to the permissible
            bulk, area and coverage requirements including setbacks, density, area, height, or open
            space otherwise required in the zoning district when such property owner elects to
            provide and maintain shared driveways, cross access driveways, access and service roads,
            internal circulation systems, or interconnected parking.

     3.     The TOWN Planning Board reserves the authority to determine, in its discretion, the
            adequacy of the access management amenities to be accepted and the particular bonus or
            incentive to be provided to a property owner.

H.   Variance Standards

     1.     The granting of a variance shall be in harmony with the purpose and intent of this
            Ordinance and shall not be considered until every reasonable option for meeting the
            provisions of this Ordinance is explored or unless the variance is in the public interest.

     2.     Applicants for a variance must provide proof of unique or special conditions that make
            strict application of the provisions of this Ordinance impractical. This shall include proof
            that:

            i.      indirect or restricted access cannot be obtained; and,

            ii.     no reasonable engineering or construction solution can be applied to mitigate the
                    condition; and,

            iii.    no reasonable alternative access is available from a road with a lower functional
                    classification than the primary road; or,

            iv.     the variance is in the public interest.

     3.     Under no circumstances shall a variance be granted unless not granting the variance
            would deny all reasonable access, endanger public health, welfare or safety, or cause an
            exceptional and undue hardship on the applicant. No variance shall be granted where
            such hardship is self-created.




                                                          19
                                                                  Sample Regulations Page 47



FARMINGTON

§ 165-34. MTOD Major Thoroughfare Overlay District. [Added 3-24-1987 by L.L. No. 1-
1987; amended 8-9-1988 by L.L. No. 8-1988; 8-11-1998 by L.L. No. 4-1998]
A. Intent. It is intended, by the provisions of these regulations, to accomplish the following:
    (1) To restrict or control site access along Route 332 and those mapped portions of
        State Route 96 in the Town of Farmington in order to prevent the creation of strip
        commercial development as well as potentially significant traffic congestion
        problems and vehicular and pedestrian conflict areas with the Major Thoroughfare
        Corridor. The Major Thoroughfare Overlay District is designed to permit
        appropriate commercial, industrial, and business uses along the corridor and to
        ensure consistency with the Route 96 and Route 332 Corridor Development Plan
        Official Map, as adopted and amended by the Town of Farmington. [Amended 5-
        25-1999 by L.L. No. 3-1999]
    (2) The regulations contained within this Major Thoroughfare Overlay District are not
        intended to be substituted for other general zoning district provisions but can be
        superimposed over such district provisions and should be considered as additional
        requirements to be met by the applicant or developer, prior to final project approval.
        This Major Thoroughfare Overlay District is intended to provide the Town of
        Farmington with an additional level of review and regulation that will control how
        land development permitted by the Town's primary zoning districts will take access
        to and will impact the major transportation routes within the Town.
B. Delineation of Major Thoroughfare Overlay District (MTOD) boundaries. The MTOD is
   hereby established as a mapped overlay zone on the Official Zoning Map of the Town of
   Farmington. The basis for amending the Town Official Zoning Map is the adoption of
   the Route 96 and Route 332 Corridor Development Official Maps hereby established by
   the Town Board and entitled "Route 96 and Route 332 Corridor Development Plan,"
   which consists of a total of four sheets and identified as Project No. 061142. Any
   property or parcel of land which contains frontage on New York State Route 332, or on
   any parcel frontage on New York State Route 96 as shown on the "Route 96 and Route
   332 Corridor Development Official Map" shall be considered to be within the boundary
   of the MTOD. Any use of land lying within the boundary of the MTOD shall first be
   subject to provisions and restrictions of the underlying zoning district and the provisions
   of this section of the Town Code. [Amended 5-25-1999 by L.L. No. 3-1999]
C. Permitted principal uses. Permitted principal uses within the Major Thoroughfare
   Overlay District shall be those allowed with the underlying or base zoning district within
   which the property lies and shall be subject to the appropriate principal use provisions
   and restrictions of that district.
D. Permitted accessory uses. Permitted accessory uses within the Major Thoroughfare
                                                                   Sample Regulations Page 48



     Overlay District shall be those allowed within the underlying or base zoning district
     within which the property lies and shall be subject to the appropriate accessory use
     provisions and restrictions of that district.
E. Special permit uses. Uses within the Major Thoroughfare Overlay District which are
   permitted subject to special permit review and approval by the Town Planning Board
   shall be those subject to such permit within the underlying or base zone district within
   which the property lies and shall also be subject to the appropriate special permit
   provisions and restrictions of that district, as well as of § 165-99 of this chapter.
F. Dimensional requirements. Dimensional requirements for development within the Major
   Thoroughfare Overlay District shall be those setbacks, lot size and lot coverage
   provisions of the underlying or base zoning district within which the subject property
   lies, as outlined in Schedule I of this Zoning Chapter, Editor's Note: Schedule I is
   included at the end of this chapter. unless otherwise provided by this chapter.
G. Setbacks. Properties located in the Major Thoroughfare Overlay District shall be
   governed by the following setbacks:
    (1) Side yard: 30 feet.
     (2) Setback from an access road: 50 feet.
     (3) Setback from Route 332 or Route 96: 100 feet.
H. Additional site plan and special use permit provisions and requirements. The
   requirements of §§ 165-44, 165-57B, 165-60C, 165-99C and 165-100 shall apply in the
   review and approval of any site development plan or special use permit required for
   property within the Major Thoroughfare Overlay District.
I.   General access management requirements.
     (1) Regulations applicable to all zoning districts within the MTOD Overlay District:
         (a) The location and design of driveways and other site layout, parking and access
              management conditions shall conform to all state and local requirements,
              including and not limited to those established in this section.
          (b) The site layout, location and design of driveways, parking and other access
              management conditions should be based on full development of a lot.
          (c) Driveways should be limited to one per lot. More than one driveway may be
              permitted if:
              [1] The additional driveway(s) does not degrade traffic operations and safety
                  on the public road system; and
               [2] The additional driveway(s) will improve the safe and efficient movement
                   of traffic between the lot and the abutting public road.
                                                                 Sample Regulations Page 49




          (d) Driveways to properties with frontage on two or more roads shall be provided
              to the road with the lowest functional classification serving the proposed
              development.
          (e) Driveways may be required to be located so as to provide shared driveways
              and/or cross-access driveways with an abutting lot or lots.
               [1] Shared driveways and/or cross-access driveways shall be of sufficient
                   width (minimum 20 feet, 6.0 meters) to accommodate two-way travel for
                   automobiles and emergency service and loading vehicles. Wider
                   driveways may be required to serve traffic to major developments or
                   large vehicles.
              [2] Shared driveways, cross-access driveways, interconnected parking and
                  private roads constructed to provide access to properties internal to a
                  subdivision shall be recorded as an easement and shall constitute a
                  covenant running with the land. Operating and maintenance agreements
                  for these facilities should be recorded with the deed.
          (f) Except when located at a signalized intersection, a motor vehicle service
              station, convenience store/petroleum station and petroleum station located in
              the MTOD district must meet both the spacing standards detailed in § 165-
              77D as well as all the spacing standards detailed in this § 165-34. A motor
              vehicle service station, convenience store/petroleum station and petroleum
              station located at a signalized intersection need only meet the spacing
              standards detailed in this § 165-34. [Added 12-12-2000 by L.L. No. 1-2000]

J.   Driveway standards.
     (1) Spacing standards. Regulations relate to the required separation, location and
         standards for driveways providing access to and from roads listed in the MTOD
         Overlay District. Each driveway constructed within the MTOD shall comply with
         the following:
          (a) Driveways shall be located so as to meet or exceed the driveway spacing
              standards shown in Table 1.
                                                 Table 1
                                Minimum Driveway Spacing Standards
                                                                               Large
                  Type of                Small            Moderate          Development
                Development/        Development          Development        (301 PHT or
                Type of Road        (0 - 150 PHT)      (151 - 300 PHT)         more)
                                                              Sample Regulations Page 50




         All state roads           220 feet            330 feet            550 feet
         Local collectors          150 feet            250 feet            400 feet
         and arterials
         Access and              50% of the        65% of the        80% of the
         Development          required frontage required frontage required frontage
         [1] PHT, peak hour trips, will be determined through application of the
             Institute of Transportation Engineers trip generation methods and
             statistics. With permission from the Town Planning Board, another
             methodology or other statistics for determination of peak hour trips may
             be used.
         [2] PHT, peak hour trips, should be based on full build-out of the lot.
         [3] The larger of the minimum driveway spacing standards for the proposed
             subdivision or development or existing developments at abutting
             properties will apply. Driveways for in-fill development must meet the
             minimum driveway spacing standards to driveways at abutting properties
             on both sides.
    (b) Driveway spacing standards shall apply to driveways located on the same side
        of a road.
    (c) Driveway spacing is to be measured along the road from the center line of the
        driveway to the center line of the next driveway.
(2) Corner clearance.
    (a) Corner clearance is to be measured along the road from the center line of the
        driveway to the closest edge of the road determined by the State Department
        of Transportation, unless otherwise specified elsewhere in this chapter.
    (b) Driveways for corner properties where there is no traffic light, either existing
        or planned, shall meet or exceed the minimum corner clearance requirements
        as follows:
         [1] Full access (all driveway movements) where there is no median barrier
             involved: 220 feet; or
         [2] Partial access (restricted driveway movements) where there is a median
             barrier involved: spacing shall be as required in Table 1 of these
             regulations. Editor's Note: See Subsection J(1) above.
    (c) Driveways for corner properties where there is a traffic light, either existing or
        planned, shall meet or exceed the minimum corner clearance requirements set
                                                              Sample Regulations Page 51




        forth in Subsection J(2)(b) above, unless said driveway is located within the
        functional boundary of the intersection as delineated on the Town of
        Farmington Routes 96 and 332 Corridor Development Plan Map, adopted by
        the Town Board. Editor's Note: Said map is on file in the Town offices. In
        those instances, said driveway is to be located based upon the results of a
        traffic impact statement and permit issued by the appropriate regional office of
        the State Department of Transportation.
(3) Driveway location.
    (a) Driveway location will be based on a site plan which has been approved by
        the Town Planning Board in consultation with the New York State
        Department of Transportation or the Town Engineer/Town Highway
        Superintendent.
    (b) For the purpose of driveway locations, median openings shall be treated as
        intersections, and driveways to properties opposing a median opening shall be
        located so as to meet or exceed the minimum corner clearance standards,
        except where a median opening is specifically constructed or reconstructed to
        provide vehicular access to such properties.
    (c) Driveways shall be located so as to meet or exceed the minimum driveway
        spacing standards and the minimum corner clearance standards.
    (d) The Town Planning Board may allow the location of driveways at less than
        the minimum driveway spacing standards and corner clearance standards if:
         [1] A dual-driveway system, cross-access driveway system or shared
             driveway is proposed and this improves the safe and efficient movement
             of traffic between the lot and the road; or
         [2] A driveway or driveways could be located so as to meet the minimum
             driveway spacing standards and corner clearance standards, but the
             characteristics of the lot or the physical or operational characteristics of
             the road are such that a change of location will improve the safe and
             efficient movement of traffic between the lot and the road; or
         [3] Conformance with the driveway spacing standards or corner clearance
             standards imposes undue hardship on the lot owner.
    (e) For properties unable to meet the minimum driveway spacing standards or
        corner clearance standards, a temporary driveway may be granted. The
        granting of a temporary driveway will be conditioned on obtaining a shared
        driveway, cross-access driveway or unified parking and circulation with an
        abutting lot, and closure of the temporary driveway, in the future.
                                                             Sample Regulations Page 52




    (f) For properties unable to meet the minimum corner clearance requirements,
        driveways shall be located as far as practicable from the intersection. In such
        cases, driveway movements may be restricted and only one driveway will be
        permitted along the road frontage not meeting the minimum corner clearance
        requirement.
(4) Driveway design.
    (a) Driveways shall be designed so as to provide for the safe and efficient
        movement of traffic between the public road and the lot and to eliminate the
        potential for the queuing of vehicles along the public road due to congestion in
        or at the driveway.
    (b) Vehicle circulation systems on the lot shall be designed so as to provide for
        the safe and efficient movement of traffic between the driveway and the
        parking area.
    (c) Driveway width, radii, flare, throat length, internal circulation systems and
        other design elements for driveways to developments generating more than
        150 peak hour trips shall be based upon traffic, engineering and design data
        provided by a traffic engineer/consultant who is recognized and accepted by
        the Town Planning Board. In the event that a traffic engineer/consultant is not
        provided, the Town shall have the right to retain such traffic
        engineer/consultant at the cost of the applicant.
(5) Driveway movements.
    (a) Driveway movements (cross, left turn in, left turn out, right turn in and right
        turn out) may be restricted so as to provide for the safe and efficient
        movement of traffic between the road and the lot.
    (b) Driveways shall be designed and constructed to provide only the allowable
        movements.
(6) Changes in access.
    (a) The Town Planning Board may establish provisions for and require future
        alteration of the lot layout, the location and design of driveways, parking and
        other access features based on phased development, additional development or
        a change in use of a lot, or development of or a change in use at an abutting
        lot.
    (b) On completion of a side, access or service road abutting a lot with a driveway
        connection to a public road, the Town Planning Board may require a driveway
        or driveways to the side, access or service road and closure of the driveway
        connection to the public road.
                                                                Sample Regulations Page 53




         (c) For any change or use of a lot which requires a Town permit or approval and
             increases peak hour trips, the Town Planning Board may:
              [1] Require the closure or relocation or consolidation of driveways so as to
                  meet the minimum driveway spacing standard for the new level of peak
                  hour trips.
             [2] Require shared driveways and cross-access driveways with abutting lots.
             [3] Require alteration of the lot-layout and parking which allow for the
                 circulation of traffic between abutting properties.

    (7) Medians.
        (a) The type, location and length of medians on state roads will be determined by
            the New York State Department of Transportation. This determination will be
            made in consultation with the Town Planning Board and will be based on
            existing and projected traffic conditions; the type, size and extent of
            development and traffic generated by development; traffic control needs; and
            other factors.
         (b) The minimum spacing between median openings will be 1,320 feet for median
             openings which restrict the directional movements of vehicles using the
             opening and 2,640 feet for median openings which do not restrict the
             directional movements of vehicles using the opening.
         (c) The minimum spacing between median openings may be waived with the
             mutual agreement of the Town Planning Board and the New York State
             Department of Transportation.
         (d) Median openings intended to serve a driveway or driveways to a development
             or developments must meet or exceed the minimum spacing standards
             between median openings and must also be justified by a traffic impact
             analysis approved by the New York State Department of Transportation in
             consultation with the Town Planning Board when driveways are proposed to
             connect to state roads, or the Town Planning Board when driveways are
             proposed to connect to local roads. The cost for preparation of the traffic
             impact analysis and construction of the median opening or openings, including
             installation and operation of signals and other improvements where warranted,
             shall be born by the applicant.

K. Classification of large development within the MTOD Overlay District. Development
   within the MTOD is classified as either small development, medium development, or
   large development. Table I of these regulations establishes the standards for all three
   types of development. Editor's Note: See Subsection J(1) above. Large developments are
                                                                   Sample Regulations Page 54



    likely to have the potential for significant adverse impacts on the environment and,
    therefore, are further subject to the following criteria:
     (1) For purposes of this section, large developments shall include residential
         developments and mixed-use subdivisions whose combined trip generation from all
         lots exceeds 150 peak hour trips; commercial, retail and industrial developments
         whose trip generation exceeds 300 peak hour trips; and any use which will, in the
         opinion of a qualified traffic engineer, detrimentally impact the safe and efficient
         movement of traffic along public roads.
    (2) Large developments may be required to mitigate the traffic impacts of their
        development. Required mitigation may include but is not limited to the construction
        or signals, turning lanes, medians, combined and shared driveways, internal service
        or access roads and implementation of transit improvements and/or traffic demand
        management strategies. This requirement may be waived with:
        (a) New York State Department of Transportation approval for mitigation
             required on or along a state road.
         (b) Town approval for mitigation required on or along a local road.
    (3) Required mitigation will be identified through a SEQRA review or transportation
        impact study.
L. Land subdivision criteria. All proposed development of land located within the MTOD,
   which involves the subdivision of a parcel of land not in effect as of the effective date of
   the adoption of these regulations, shall be subject to the following criteria in addition to
   that set forth in Chapter 144, Subdivision of Land, of the Code of the Town of
   Farmington.
    (1) Planned access shall be provided for lots which are the result of subdivisions
        occurring after the effective date of this section.
    (2) Planned access shall address the provisions of this section and the following:
        (a) Lots which are the result of a subdivision do not have the right of individual
            access to public roads. The number of driveways or other connections shall be
            the minimum number necessary to provide reasonable access to these lots, not
            the maximum available for the frontage.
         (b) Driveways shall be provided to the road with the lowest functional
             classification serving the proposed land use.
         (c) Access should be internalized. Access to lots within a subdivision should be
             obtained from an access road or interior road.
         (d) The access system for the proposed subdivision should be coordinated with
             existing, proposed and planned streets outside the subdivision.
                                                                 Sample Regulations Page 55




    (3) Shared driveways, cross-access driveways, interconnected parking and private
        roads constructed to provide access to lots internal to a subdivision shall be
        recorded as an easement and shall constitute a covenant running with the land.
        Operating and maintenance agreements for these facilities should be recorded with
        the deed.
M. Incentives for land development within the MTOD. In accordance with the provisions of
   § 261-b of New York State Town Law, the Town Board, upon recommendation from the
   Town Planning Board, may grant incentives to proposed development occurring within
   the MTOD area when the following conditions are found to exist:
    (1) In order to ensure the safe and efficient movement of traffic along a road and
        between the road and properties abutting the road, shared driveways, cross-access
        driveways, access and service roads, internal circulation systems and interconnected
        parking are encouraged.
    (2) The Town Board, based upon a Town Planning Board recommendation which is
        first based upon approval of a preliminary site and/or subdivision plan, may grant
        adjustments to the permissible density, area, height or open space otherwise
        required in the zoning district when such lot owner elects to provide and maintain
        shared driveways, cross-access driveways, access and service roads, internal
        circulation systems, or interconnected parking.
    (3) The Town Planning Board reserves the authority to determine the adequacy of the
        access management amenities to be accepted and the particular bonus or incentive
        to be provided to a lot owner.
N. Variance standards for development within the MTOD Overlay District.
   (1) In addition to the standards and criteria for development set forth elsewhere in the
       Town of Farmington Code, the Town Board hereby enacts the following additional
       standards for the granting of variances associated with development within the
       MTOD Overlay District:
        (a) The granting of an area variance shall be in harmony with the purpose and
            intent of this section and shall not be considered until every reasonable option
            for meeting the provisions of this section is explored.
         (b) Applicants for an area variance must demonstrate unique or special conditions
             that make strict application of the provisions of this section impractical. This
             shall include a showing that:
              [1] Indirect or restricted access cannot be obtained;
              [2] No reasonable engineering or construction solutions can be applied to
                  mitigate the condition; and
                                                                    Sample Regulations Page 56




              [3] No reasonable alternative access is available from a road with a lower
                  functional classification than the primary road.
         (c) Under no circumstances shall an area variance be granted unless not granting
             the variance would deny all reasonable access, endanger public health, welfare
             or safety or cause an exceptional and undue hardship on the applicant. No area
             variance shall be granted where such hardship is self-created.
    (2) Additional provisions and requirements.
        (a) Lot area, bulk and coverage requirements.
            [1] Lot area, bulk and coverage requirements shall be as defined in the Town
                 of Farmington, Schedule I, Lot Area, Bulk and Coverage Requirements,
                 Editor's Note: Schedule I is included at the end of this chapter. except as
                 otherwise provided for in this chapter.
              [2] Lots within the MTOD Major Thoroughfare Overlay District which take
                  access to state roads shall have a minimum width which allows the
                  placement of driveways within the minimum driveway spacing standards
                  as defined in Chapter 165, Article IV, § 165-34J. Such width may be
                  reduced, at the discretion of the Town Planning Board, where the lot
                  obtains access through a shared driveway or a cross-access driveway or
                  provides a separate driveway to another road.
              [3] Lots within the MTOD Major Thoroughfare Overlay District which take
                  access exclusively from a local collector, local arterial, access road or
                  development road shall have a width which allows the placement of
                  driveways within the minimum driveway spacing standards for such
                  roads as defined in Chapter 165, Article IV, § 165-34J. In such cases the
                  minimum lot width required along State Route 332 and State Route 96
                  shall be as defined in the Town of Farmington, Schedule I, Lot Area,
                  Bulk and Coverage Requirements. Editor's Note: Schedule I is included
                  at the end of this chapter.



§ 165-50. Access control.

In order to encourage the sound development of street frontage, the following special
regulations shall apply to all uses permitted within the business and industrial districts:

A. Access barrier. Access to streets shall be controlled in the interest of public safety. Each
                                                                  Sample Regulations Page 57



   building or group of buildings and its parking or service areas shall be physically
   separated from the highway line by a curb and planting strip or other suitable barrier to
   control motor vehicle access, except for access points authorized herein.
B. Access points. Insofar as practical, the use of common access points by two or more
   permitted uses shall be provided in order to reduce the number and closeness of access
   points along the streets and to encourage the fronting of business and industrial structures
   upon a parallel access street and not directly upon a public road. Access points for uses
   generating more than 150 peak hour trips shall not be less than 24 feet nor more than 50
   feet in width. All other access points shall not be less than 20 feet nor more than 40 feet
   in width. [Amended 8-11-1998 by L.L. No. 4-1998]


(2)In addition to the information submission requirements of § 165-100, the Town Planning
Board may require an application for special use permit review and approval to be
accompanied, in the following cases, by a transportation impact analysis, to be prepared by
the applicant, and reviewed by the Town Planning Board: [Amended 8-11-1998 by L.L. No.
4-1998]
(a) Any retail, commercial or industrial development which proposes direct access to a
    collector or arterial road outside of the boundaries of the MTOD Major Thoroughfare
    Overlay District.
(b) Any large development to be located on property within the boundaries of the MTOD
    Major Thoroughfare Overlay District, as defined by Article IV, § 165-34K.
(c) Any residential development which proposes to have more than 25 dwelling units.
(d) Any other use which may, in the opinion of a qualified traffic engineer, detrimentally
    impact the safe and efficient movement of traffic along public roads.
                                               Sample Regulations Page 58




LIVONIA

LIVONIA ACCESS MANAGEMENT CODE


NOTE: Section references as printed are based on the Town chapter
numbering (zoning is Chapter 150, subdivision is Chapter 125).
Article and section numbers in the zoning and subdivision chapters
are the same for the town and village code. For Village regulations,
zoning is Chapter 155 and subdivision is Chapter 130.


                  Article XV Access Management


§ 150-124. Intent.
The purpose of these access management standards is to provide safe
and efficient travel along public streets. These standards are based
on the goals and strategies of the Livonia Transportation and Access
Management Plan. The standards balance public and private interests.
Implementation of these access management standards is intended to
reduce confusion, congestion, and accidents by limiting conflict
points. These standards are also intended to guide development of a
street network with sufficient linkages between uses. The standards
will contribute to the long-term accommodation of growth and
development while providing safe and convenient access to properties
and preserving the visual character of area streets.



§ 150-125. Definitions.


ACCESS- A way or means of approach to provide vehicular or
pedestrian entrance or exit to a parcel.

ACCESS CONNECTION, VEHICULAR - Any driveway, private street,
turnout, or other means of providing for the movement of vehicles to
or from a public street.
                                               Sample Regulations Page 59



ACCESS MANAGEMENT - The process of locating and designing vehicular
access connections to land development to preserve the flow of
traffic in terms of safety, capacity and speed.
CORNER CLEARANCE - The distance from an intersection of two or more
streets to the nearest access connection.

CROSS ACCESS - The layout of circulation patterns and recording of a
permanent enforceable right of access to allow travel between two or
more contiguous parcels without traveling on a public street.
DRIVEWAY - Any entrance or exit used by vehicular traffic to or from
land or building to an abutting street.
DRIVEWAY, SHARED - A driveway in common ownership or subject to a
permanent enforceable right of access by those traveling to or from
a use on another parcel.
FUNCTIONAL AREA (INTERSECTION) - The area adjacent to the
intersection of two or more streets that encompasses required
vehicle queuing areas and the decision and maneuvering area for
vehicles using the intersection.


FUNCTIONAL CLASSIFICATION - A system used to group public streets
into classes according to their purpose in moving vehicles and
providing access to abutting properties.
NONCONFORMING ACCESS - An access connection existing prior to the
date of adoption of these regulations which in its design or
location does not conform with the requirements of this Chapter.
PARCEL - A division of land comprised of one or more contiguous lots
in common ownership.


PEAK HOUR TRIP (PHI) GENERATION - a weighted average vehicle trip
generation rate during the hour of highest volume of traffic
entering and exiting the site or the highest volume of the adjacent
street.
REASONABLE ACCESS - The minimum number and type of access
connections, direct or indirect, necessary to provide safe access to
and from a public street, as consistent with these regulations and
other relevant plans and policies of the Town or Village of Livonia.
                                               Sample Regulations Page 60



RESTRICTIVE MEDIAN - A physical barrier such as a metal or concrete
structure or a grass or landscaped island within the street right-
of-way that separates traffic by direction of travel.


STREETS, ACCESS and DEVELOPMENT - Streets not otherwise classified.
The primary function of such streets is to move traffic within
subdivisions and large developments and to provide access to
individual lots.


STREET, COLLECTOR - Those portions of the Livonia transportation
system providing important links between major streets or serving
large residential or non-residential developments. Collector streets
must balance the desirability of the free flow of traffic and access
needs_ Additional collector streets may be designated by resolution
of the municipal board and an up-to-date list shall be available in
the Building and Zoning Department office. Collector streets
currently include the following streets which are under the
jurisdiction of the Livingston County Highway Department.


     Bronson Hill Road
     East Lake Road
     Federal Road
     Livonia Center Road
     Poplar Hill Road
     Richmond Mills Road (NYS 15A to Richmond town line)
     South Lima Road


These regulations also designate as collector streets the following
streets under town jurisdiction:


     Stone Hill Road (from NYS 15 to Poplar Hill Road)
     Proposed New Road
     Big Tree Street/Road
                                               Sample Regulations Page 61



     Cleary Road
     Summer Street
     Pennemite Road


Portions of these streets within the Village of Livonia are
designated as local streets.
STREET, LOCAL - The primary functions of such streets is to move
traffic between subdivisions as well as to provide access to
individual lots.
STREET, MAJOR - Those portions of the Livonia transportation system
under State or Federal jurisdiction or designated as a major street
by a local municipal board A major street typically moves larger
volumes of traffic over greater distances compared to other street
types. This function of mobility or the free flow of traffic must be
considered when defining reasonable access to such streets. Access
is a secondary functions of such streets. The following lists the
route numbers and names of streets wholly or partially under State
or Federal jurisdiction.



Route Number   Location

               Rochester Road, Big Tree Road, Big Tree
NYS 15         Street, Main Street, Commercial Street,
               Conesus-South Livonia Road

NYS 15A        Plank Road and Bald Hill Road

NYS 256        West Lake Road


               Big Tree Road, Big Tree Street, Main Street,
US 20A
               Richmond Mills Road, Plank Road, US 20A



TEMPORARY ACCESS - Provision of direct access to a street until such
time as adjacent parcels are developed and planned access via a
shared driveway or access development street can be implemented.
                                                 Sample Regulations Page 62




§ 150-126. Applicability.
These access management standards shall apply to all uses in all
districts. More specifically:
  A.    All land subdivisions receiving preliminary approval after
       the date of adoption of these regulations and all lots created
       by such subdivisions shall demonstrate conformance to the
       maximum extend practicable with the requirements and
       objectives of these regulations.

  B.    Any construction, alteration, or change of use on a lot
       existing prior to the date of adoption of these regulations
       which requires site plan approval, shall demonstrate
       conformance to the maximum extent practicable with the
       requirements and objectives of these regulations.


§ 150-27. General Requirements.
  A. Access and circulation shown on subdivision and site plans
     developed under these regulations shall also conform to the
     requirements of other federal, state, and local agencies
     responsible for transportation system elements proposed for
     modification. This includes but in not limited to
     transportation agency standards for stopping and intersection
     sight distances, signal warrants and, if applicable, the
     subdivision regulations of Chapterl25 and other portions of
     this Chapter especially the district regulations of Article
     VI, the off-street parking and loading regulations of Article
     X and the site plan review regulations of Article XIV,

  B. Deviations from the standards outlined in this Article for
     developments generating more than 150 peak hour trips must be
     based on documentation from a qualified traffic engineer that
     an alternative access arrangement provides equal or greater
     safety and mobility and comparable or lower adverse
     environmental impacts. All such deviation must be in
     accordance with the procedures and requirements for obtaining
     an area variance as specified in § 150-17 of this Chapter. The
     Joint Planning Board has discretion for approving deviation
     from the standards for uses generating less than 150 peak hour
     trips and reserves the right to require professional
                                               Sample Regulations Page 63



    justification of deviation from standards for projects
    generating less than 150 peak hour trips.
  C. Parcels created after the effective date of these regulations
     do not have the right of individual access to existing
     abutting public streets. The number of planned access
     connections is to be the minimum necessary to provide safe and
     reasonable access. This may be less than the number of access
     connections which would be allowed based solely on minimum
     property width requirements.
  D. New public or private streets, shared driveways or cross
     access may be necessary to meet the requirements of these
     regulations. If access is to be provided by means other than
     direct access to a public street, a permanent recorded
     easement, which runs with the land, shall be executed. In
     addition, operating and maintenance agreements for all such
     facilities shall be recorded with the deed.

  E. Subdivision of a parcel with frontage on two or more streets
     may be required to provide access from all lots which result
     from the proposed subdivision to all such streets without
     traveling on the existing street network. In most cases, even
     if a vehicle connection is not provided, a pedestrian
     connection shall be provided.
  F. Parcels with frontage on more than one street may be limited
     to one access connection to the lowest class of street serving
     the proposed development.
  G. Unless otherwise specified, all distances shall be measured
     from centerline to centerline along the edge of the street
     right-of-way. Where street or intersection modifications are
     planned, all distances shall be from the proposed centerline
     along the edge of the proposed right-of-way.


§ 158-128. Access to subdivided lands and phased, full build-
out and multi-owner development plans.
  A. Prior to subdivision or site plan approval or approval of a
     zoning permit for any new or modified access or intersection,
     the applicant must provide a concept plan. The concept plan
     shall show the location of buildings, parking, and circulation
     including connections to preexisting streets, and alignments
     of any new streets necessary to accommodate full build-out as
     allowed by current zoning for all lands under single ownership
     as of the date of adoption of these regulations.
                                                 Sample Regulations Page 64



  B. Access   to   individual  residential  driveways  within   a
     subdivision should be obtained from an access or development
     street.
  C. Access to other uses in a proposed subdivision should be
     coordinated with existing, proposed and planned streets and
     driveways outside the subdivision, and should consider
     providing cross access connections to abutting developed or
     undeveloped properties.
  D. When the concept plan for access to lands planned jointly or
     under common ownership as of the date of adoption of these
     regulations shows development of a an access or development
     street as part of eventual full build-out, the Joint Planning
     Board may allow temporary access directly to a public street
     while requiring that parcel layout be designed to provide
     future access only from the proposed access or development
     street. Furthermore, the Joint Planning Board may establish
     square footage or peak hour trip generation thresholds which
     govern when construction of the access or development street
     must take place.
§ 158-129. Driveway Spacing Standards.
  A. Minimum recommended spacing between driveways on the same side
     of the street are as follows:



       Street Type             Recommended Driveway Separation (in feet)

 Major Street                              330

 Collector Street                          220

 Local Street                        80 percent of lot width

Access or Development Street         80 percent of lot width
I

  B. Access connections on opposite sides of the street not
     separated by a restrictive median shall be aligned or off set
     so as to eliminate left-turn overlap conflicts between
     vehicles traveling in the opposite direction
                                               Sample Regulations Page 65



  C. Access connections to development on opposite sides of the
     street with peak hour trip generation of 150 or more may be
     required to be aligned to enable installation of a traffic
     signal to serve both developments.

  D. On the advice of the municipal engineer, the Joint Planning
     Board may raise or lower the required driveway spacing
     standard based on the volume of site generated traffic, the
     impact of site generated traffic on the operation of the
     adjacent street. or posted or operational speeds in the
     vicinity of the proposed site.
  E. The Joint Planning Board as part of site plan review will
     evaluate how proposed driveway location impacts opportunities
     to develop abutting properties. At a minimum such evaluation
     shall identify any sight distance and alignment/offset
     constraints and indicate whether compliance with the
     recommended spacing standards is practicable for abutting
     properties based on applicant's proposed driveway location.


§ 150-130. Corner Clearance.
The following standards shall guide approval of driveway access on
comer parcels:
  A. A    .Generally no driveways shall be allowed within the
     functional area of the intersection. If parcel boundaries or
     topography preclude location outside the functional area of
     the intersection, access may be limited to right turns in
     and/or right turns out and/or left turns in. As determined by
     the municipal engineer and, the driveway shall generally be
     located as far from the intersection as possible and in the
     safest possible location.
  B. Development on corner parcels should be linked by cross
     access to abutting properties o£ the same type (i.e,
     residential or non-residential).
  C. Driveways for corner parcels with frontage along a major or
     collector street shall be located no closer than 220 feet from
     the intersection.
  D. If no alternative reasonable access exists, partial (right-
     in/right-out) access that does not create safety or operation
     problems may be allowed if located a minimum of 110 feet from
     the nearest edge of existing or proposed pavement.
                                                Sample Regulations Page 66



            Driveways for corner parcels with frontage solely along
       local streets or access or development streets shall be
       located no closer than 60 percent of the minimum lot width.
  E. Corner clearance is to be measured along the street right-of-
     way from the centerline of the driveway pavement to the
     closest edge of the existing or proposed street pavement.


§ 150-131. Street and Signal Spacing.
Intersection spacing standards shall be applied, as development
occurs, to preserve desirable location and alignment of streets to
serve future growth and provide an efficient overall transportation
system.
  A.    The following presents recommended cross street and signal
       spacing standards.


Recommended Street, Intersection and Signal Spacing (feet)

               Maximum            Minimum Intersection Spacing (feet)

Street Type    Through Street     Signalized          Unsignalized

Major          5,280              2,640             1,320

Collector      2,640              1,320             880

Local          1,320              NA                440

Access or      880                NA                440



  B. On the advice of the municipal engineer, the Joint Planning
     Board may raise or lower the required intersection spacing
     standards based on posted or operational speeds in the vi-
     cinity of the proposed site, the type and character of the
     development proposed to be served, and the impact of projected
     traffic generation on the area street network.


§ 150-132. Nonconforming access.
                                                 Sample Regulations Page 67



Access connections in place prior to the e5ec-6ve date o£ these
regulations which do not conform to the requirements of these
regulations shall be treated as pre-existing nonconforming access
features which are allowed to continue subject to the standards of
Article VIII, especially §150-70 B. regarding discontinuation and
the following.
  A. The feasibility of bringing nonconforming access connections
     into compliance shall be evaluated under the following
     conditions:

        1. When a new driveway access permit is requested.
        2. When proposed changes increase the square footage of a
           building or accessory use by 10 percent or more, or make
           an investment that substantially increases traffic
           generation.
        3. When the proposed changes increase the peak hour or daily
           site generated traffic by 50 or more peak hour trips.
        4. In conjunction with state or county improvement projects.


  B.   At the direction of the Joint Planning Board in consultation
       with the municipal engineer, the evaluation may be required
       to address the feasibility of the following:

        1.   Elimination and/or consolidation of access connections.
        2.   Realignment or relocation of access connections.
        3.   Provision of shared driveways or cross access.
        4.   Provision of rear access.
        5.   Restriction of vehicle turning movements.
        6.   Changes in the layout of on-site parking and circulation.
        7.   Traffic demand management.

  C. The objective of the feasibility evaluation is to make
     recommendations to improve operational and safety
     characteristics of the access connection by bringing the
     number, location, spacing, and design of access connections
     into conformance with these regulations.

  D. Existing driveway spacing along major and collector streets in
     developed portions of the Village of Livonia and the hamlets
     of Hemlock, Lakeville, Livonia Center, South Lima, and South
                                               Sample Regulations Page 68



     Livonia is as low as 50 to 100 feet. Such buildings are not
     expected to accommodate uses that generate more than 150 peace
     hour trips. Driveway spacing standards for expansion, change
     of use or intensification of use for buildings in these areas
     shall target driveway spacing of 125 feet if the posted speed
     is 35 mph or less and 220 feet if the posted speed limit is
     more than 35 mph. Peak hour trip generation above 150 may be
     appropriate if the driveway spacing standards of §150-129 can
     be met.
  D. The Joint Planning Board may require implementation of access
     changes that will improve traffic operations, safety, or
     overall access.


§ 150-1.33. Design of driveways and internal circulation.
  A. Driveways and on-site circulation shall be designed so as to
     provide for the safe and efficient movement of traffic between
     the roadway and the site, and to eliminate the potential for
     the queuing of vehicles along, the roadway due to congestion
     in or at the driveway.
  B. Driveway location, width, radii, flare, throat length, and
     other elements of the circulation system for developments
     generating more than 150 peak hour trips shall be based upon
     consultation with qualified traffic, engineering and design
     professionals. Alternatively, the Joint Planning Board may
     retain such a professional to review the design at the cost of
     the applicant.


§ 150-134. Required mitigation of traffic impacts.
  A. Any proposed residential subdivision or non-residential
     development projected to generate more than 150 trips during
     any weekday or weekend peak hour may be required to mitigate
     the traffic impacts of such new development. Required
     mitigation shall be recommended by a qualified traffic
     engineer based on the assumptions and analyses included in a
     comprehensive traffic study completed in accordance with the
     procedures of the State Environmental Quality Act.
  B. Required mitigation may include but shall not be limited to
     the installation of signals, turning lanes, or medians, the
                                                 Sample Regulations Page 69



      use of shared driveways, cross access, or the construction of
      access or development streets, and/or other traffic demand
      management strategies.
  C. Phased mitigation may be allowed where phased development is
     proposed.




§ 150-135. Standards for estimating peak hour generation.
  A. The standards and methodologies for estimating Peak Hour Trip
     Generation shall be as follows:

      1.   Trip generation rates shall be determined through
      application of the most recent Institute of Transportation
      Engineers Trip Generation methods and statistics.

      2.   Trip generation shall be based on full build-out of the
      proposed parcel and/or abutting parcels.

      3.   Peak Hour Trip generation shall be the peak hour of the
      proposed use or the adjacent street, whichever is greater.

  B. The following are examples o£ developments which would
     generate approximately 150 Peak Hour Trips.


Use                     Size           Peak Hour Trips Generated
 Single Family          157 dwellings 150 Saturday peak hour trips            t

 Low Rise Apartments    268 dwellings 150 Saturday peak hour trips

General Office          75,900 square 150 weekday a.m. peak hour trips        h
                                                                              t
                        feet                                                  o
                                                                              r
Medical Office          34,400 square 150 weekday p.m. peak hour trips        h
                                                                              t
                        feet                                                  o
                                                                              r
Industrial Park         124,000 square 150 weekday p.m. peak hour trips       h
                                                                              t
                        feet                                                  o
                                                                              r
Shopping Center         6,700 square   150 Saturday peak hour trips
                       feet
