La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan
            August 2011
                                                                                              La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan



                             La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


Contents
Background................................................................................................................................ 2
Planning Objective for La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan ...................................................... 2
Conditions at the Beginning of the Planning Process ................................................................. 2
   Traffic Factors ........................................................................................................................ 3
Plan Development Process ........................................................................................................ 3
   Community Survey ................................................................................................................. 4
   Community Workshops .......................................................................................................... 5
Community-Preferred Plan for La Costa Avenue Improvements ................................................ 6
Projected Costs and Traffic Conditions .....................................................................................12
Funding and Phasing Options ...................................................................................................12
Appendix 1 ................................................................................................................................14
   La Costa Avenue Study Community Survey - Summary of Comments ..................................14
Appendix 2 ................................................................................................................................36
   Summary of Comments on Proposed Plan............................................................................36
Appendix 3 ................................................................................................................................42
   Technical Memorandum: La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan ­ Level of Service Analysis
   Planning and Cost Estimate ..................................................................................................42




8/17/11                                                                                                                  Page 1
                                                                  La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


                        La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan

Background
La Costa Avenue between Rancho Santa Fe Road and El Camino Real was developed when
the La Costa area was part of the County of San Diego, prior to annexation to the City of
Carlsbad in 1972. Over the years, traffic has increased along the heavily traveled road, which
links eastern Carlsbad with Interstate 5 and the coast. Driveways open directly onto the road,
which has a 45-mile-per-hour speed limit, making it challenging to enter and exit residences
during busy traffic times.




The City previously worked with a select group of residents along La Costa Avenue to address
safety concerns. The results of these studies provide base data for this community-focused
planning process. Some of the initial efforts by the City to address safety include speed
displays and increased enforcement. More recently, the General Plan update is expected to
create multi-modal standards introducing quality of life issues, providing an opportunity to
consider broader objectives and options for La Costa Avenue. City traffic engineers initiated
this study to identify additional changes to balance traffic safety and the needs of motorists with
the quality of life for those who live in the neighborhood.


Planning Objective for La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan
The planning objective approved by the Carlsbad City Council for the La Costa Avenue
Improvement Plan is to develop a cost effective, Community-Preferred Plan to address traffic
speeds and safety on La Costa Avenue in a way that respects the residential character and
arterial function of the roadway.


Conditions at the Beginning of the Planning Process
La Costa Avenue is designated as a "secondary arterial" between El Camino Real and Rancho
Santa Fe Road and functions as a major connector to the area's roadway system. There are



8/17/11                                                                               Page 2
                                                                  La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


four travel lanes, two in each direction, narrowing to one eastbound lane at Gibraltar Street.
On-street parking is currently accommodated on the north side of the street west of Romeria
Street and on the south side east of Romeria Street. A continuous striped median exists along
the entire study segment, providing left turn access to driveways and cross streets. A striped
bike lane exists either as a designated lane or a shared lane with parking for westbound
bicyclists from Rancho Santa Fe Road to El Camino Real, and for eastbound bicyclists east of
Romeria Street. There is residential frontage with direct driveway access to La Costa on the
north side of the street west of Romeria Street and on the south side east of Romeria Street.
Sidewalks along both the north and side sides of La Costa Avenue are attached to the street
and there are numerous locations where the sidewalk is missing or contains physical
encroachments such as mailboxes. The posted speed limit on La Costa Avenue is 45 miles per
hour.

Traffic Factors
La Costa Avenue is classified as a Secondary Arterial by the City of Carlsbad. The segment
from El Camino Real to Rancho Santa Fe Road is approximately two miles long with a roadway
width of 64 feet curb-to-curb. The roadway grades vary from 1% to 8% with numerous closely
spaced driveways and limited street lighting. There are attached sidewalks along La Costa
Avenue with missing segments of sidewalks, varying from short segments to multiple blocks of
missing sidewalk along the south side of the street. Mailboxes in front of residences on the
north side encroach into the sidewalk, limiting the width for pedestrians. The average daily traffic
varies from approximately 17,900 vehicles per day west of Nueva Castilla Way to approximately
12,300 west of Cadencia Street. There are currently traffic signals at each end of the study
area and at Cadencia Street, Romeria Street, and Viejo Castilla Way. La Costa Avenue is
designated as a bike route in the current Circulation Element of the General Plan.

The City of Carlsbad conducts traffic studies on La Costa Avenue to determine the average
daily traffic, 85th percentile speed, and collision rates. Table 1 shows recent traffic data
collected on La Costa Avenue.

Table 1: Traffic Data
            Location                    85th Percentile Speed*     10 mph Pace Speed**
 West of Nueva Castilla Way                     47 mph                  39-49 mph
 East of Viejo Castilla Way                     47 mph                  38-48 mph
 East of Gibraltar Street                       47 mph                  38-48 mph
 West of Esfera Street                          45 mph                  37-47 mph
* 85 percent of the traffic travels at this speed or below
**The 10 mile per hour grouping with the greatest number of vehicles

During the two-year period between March 1, 2009 and February 28, 2011, there were 26 total
collisions reported in this segment of La Costa Avenue. Of those, four were reported as speed-
related collisions.


Plan Development Process
The City of Carlsbad initiated the planning process to develop an ultimate improvement plan for
La Costa Avenue between El Camino Real and Rancho Santa Fe Road in April 2011. The first
step in the process was to send notices and surveys to all residents in the La Costa




8/17/11                                                                               Page 3
                                                                  La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


neighborhood to determine the critical issues to address in the study. The survey was also
posted on the City of Carlsbad website to solicit broader input from the public.

The City hosted a series of three community workshops to develop a community preferred plan.
These meetings were held on April 28, May 26, and June 23, 2011, at the Stage Coach
Community Center. Members of the Carlsbad community were invited to participate in the
development of the La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan through these meetings. The City
provided meeting summaries and posted presentation materials from each meeting on the City's
website. Comment surveys were also posted online for participants and other community
members to provide additional input on each step of the planning process.

Community Survey
The City received 965 responses to the community survey and the results were compiled and
presented at the first meeting with the neighborhood. Table 2 shows the results of the
neighborhood survey:

Table 2: Summary of Neighborhood Survey

 Question                                         Response
 1. Please indicate your level of concern for     Ranked as very concerned:
 each of the following traffic issues on La       Traffic speeds - 52%
 Costa Avenue.                                    Pedestrian safety - 49%
                                                  Bicycle safety - 57%
                                                  Traffic noise ­ 24%
                                                  Availability of on-street parking - 8%
                                                  Operation of on-street parking - 10%
                                                  Street maintenance - 28%
                                                  Street landscaping ­ 20%
 2. What, if any, concerns do you have about      Visibility - 59%
 driving safety on La Costa Avenue?               Street width - 31%
                                                  Signing - 20%
                                                  Traffic speeds ­ 69%
                                                  Right-of-way controls ­ 34%
                                                  Street curvature and grades ­ 39%
 3. What activities do you or members of          Walking/jogging ­ 40%
 your household use La Costa Avenue for           Bicycling ­ 30%
 regularly?                                       Driving ­ 93%
 4. If there are school children in your house,   Automobile ­ 80%
 what is the most common method of travel         Walking ­ 43%
 to and from school?                              Bicycling ­ 23%
 5. What types of traffic control devices do      Signs­ 52%
 you feel would be appropriate for use on La      Pavement markings ­ 40%
 Costa Avenue?                                    Landscaping ­ 37%
                                                  Pedestrian crossings ­ 42%
                                                  Sidewalks­ 51%
                                                  Physical changes to the street­ 32%
                                                  Raised medians­ 31%

In addition to the tabulated results, there were numerous comments.      All comments were
captured and included in Appendix 1 of this report.



8/17/11                                                                               Page 4
                                                                 La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


Community Workshops
The City and community residents met on April 28, May 26, and June 23, to work through each
step of the planning process. The first meeting provided an overview of the study objective and
planning process, a summary of the survey results, and information about potential
improvement options and devices.

Over 100 members of the Carlsbad community attended the April 28 meeting for the La Costa
Avenue Improvement Plan. City staff and the consultant presented an overview of the project, a
summary of responses to the community survey, and a description of the devices and options
the city is considering for use in developing the La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan.
Participants were then invited to visit various work stations to identify specific issues and
concerns along La Costa Avenue and consider the different types of improvements under
consideration. Participants were also asked to complete a comment sheet to provide additional
information on the issues, what they like or don't like about various devices, and what they
consider is important in developing a successful plan for La Costa Avenue.

Approximately 70 members of the Carlsbad community attended the May 26 meeting for the La
Costa Avenue Improvement Plan. City staff and the consultant reviewed the community input
from the first meeting, including specific concerns and preferences for various devices being
considered for installation on La Costa, and three concept plans developed to gain additional
information on preferred options for La Costa Avenue. Each of the concept alternatives was
developed to determine preferences for the various tradeoffs involved in making improvements
to La Costa Avenue. The major elements of the three alternatives were:

          Concept A ­ Four lanes with medians
             - Two lanes in each direction
             - Landscaped medians
             - Restricted parking
             - No new bike lanes
             - No left turns into or out of driveways
          Concept B ­ Two lanes with roundabouts
             - One lane in each direction
             - Landscaped medians
             - Roundabouts at two intersections
             - Bike lanes in both directions
          Concept C ­ Two lanes with partial medians and bulb outs
             - One lane in each direction
             - Partial medians
             - Bulb outs at intersections
             - Landscaping opportunities on medians and bulb outs
             - Bike lanes in each direction

Participants were then invited to review the three concept alternatives and provide input on how
well each met the planning objectives and addressed the community concerns. Comment
sheets were provided to gain additional insight into why participants preferred certain options or
features in each of the alternatives.

At the June 23 meeting, attended by approximately 50 members of the Carlsbad community,
City staff and the consultant reviewed the planning process and how the input from the
community survey and first two workshops were used to develop the draft plan presented at the
meeting. They reviewed the planning objective for the La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan to


8/17/11                                                                              Page 5
                                                                   La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


develop a cost effective, Community-Preferred Plan to address traffic speeds and safety on La
Costa Avenue in a way that respects the residential character and arterial function of the
roadway. This objective was further defined through the first two community workshops and the
following planning objectives provided the basis for developing a draft plan:

    ·     Increase safety for all users
              ­ Accommodate all modes of transportation (auto, bike, and pedestrian)
              ­ Reduce travel speeds
              ­ Increase sight distance for driveway access
    ·     Design a roadway in keeping with the residential neighborhood
              ­ Accommodate on-street parking in front of residential areas
              ­ Minimize the number of traffic signals
              ­ Increase landscaping
              ­ Design improvements to be effective without enforcement
    ·     Don't divert traffic to other residential streets
              ­ Do not penalize drivers traveling at the posted speed limit (i.e., design should be
                 consistent with high volume roadway classification)
              ­ Avoid congestion
    ·     Develop a cost effective plan

The draft plan for La Costa Avenue was presented for discussion and refinement. The
conceptual plan would reduce La Costa Avenue to one travel lane in each direction between
Fairway Lane and Esfera Street. The lane configuration would allow a bike lane in each
direction of travel and roundabouts as an alternative to traffic signals. The roadway capacity
would be maintained near the primary entrance points at El Camino Real and Rancho Santa Fe
Road. Analysis of the traffic flow indicates that the proposed configuration would meet the
City's level of service standards under existing and forecasted conditions. The proposed plan
was estimated to cost approximately $3 million, not including sidewalks and depending on
engineering design considerations. The City currently has approximately $1 million in the
budget for traffic signals on La Costa Avenue and it is anticipated that these funds would be re-
allocated toward these long-term improvements. Participants were asked to provide input on
potential phasing preferences.

The community members attending the meeting generally supported the proposed plan, but
there were still concerns about longer travel times resulting from congestion and the proposed
speed reduction measures. Public comments on the draft plan, from the meeting participants
and the Carlsbad community input on the City's webpage, were used to finalize the community-
preferred improvement plan.


Community-Preferred Plan for La Costa Avenue Improvements
Figures 1-4 show the proposed conceptual plan for improvements to La Costa Avenue. Figures
1 and 3 provide a plan view of the proposed improvements which are further illustrated in photo
simulations in Figures 2 and 4. These graphics show the reconfiguration of travel lanes from
four lanes to two lanes through the study area, with the addition of continuous, designated bike
lanes in each direction, and a system of landscaped medians, curb extensions (bulb outs), and
roundabouts to create a more curvilinear roadway with landscaping to provide visual breaks
along the street. Roundabouts are a preferred treatment at intersections where enhanced
safety and reduced vehicle speeds are desired. The Community-Preferred Plan proposes
roundabouts at two locations, based on preliminary cost estimates and stakeholder comments.
Additional roundabouts should be considered at other intersection locations based on actual


8/17/11                                                                               Page 6
                                                                    La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


construction costs and need to further reduce vehicle speed. Reduced speeds on La Costa
Avenue will improve safety along La Costa Avenue by improving sight distance at driveways
and side streets. This system of devices is designed to slow traffic, minimize delay at the
intersections, and enhance safety for vehicles, bikes and pedestrians.

These improvements are consistent with the planning objectives developed through the
community workshops and reflect a number of the core values articulated in Envision Carlsbad:

          Access to Recreation and Active, Healthy Lifestyles
          Promote active lifestyles and community health by furthering access to trails, parks,
          beaches, and other recreation opportunities.

          Walking, Biking, Public Transportation, and Connectivity
          Increase travel options through enhanced walking, bicycling, and public transportation
          systems. Enhance mobility through increased connectivity and intelligent transportation
          management.

          Neighborhood Revitalization, Community Design, and Livability
          Revitalize neighborhoods and enhance citywide community design and livability.
          Promote a greater mix of uses citywide, more activities along the coastline, and link
          density to public transportation. Revitalize the Village as a community focal point and a
          unique and memorable center for visitors, and rejuvenate the historic Barrio
          neighborhood.

The Community-Preferred Plan is a conceptual plan. The specific location of devices has not
been determined and may shift based on topography, access locations, drainage, utilities,
construction cost, and other considerations through the subsequent steps of environmental
review and engineering design. For example, additional roundabouts not identified in the
Community-Preferred Plan may be added at other locations if they are found to be the most
effective alternative for reducing speeds and enhancing safety. Additional parking restrictions
may be required to meet the stopping sight distance for safe operation of La Costa Avenue.




8/17/11                                                                                Page 7
                                                                 La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


Figure 1: Proposed Plan for La Costa Avenue, West End




8/17/11                                                 Page 8
                                                              La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan



Figure 2: Existing and Photo Simulation of Proposed Roundabout at Nueva Castilla Way




8/17/11                                                                          Page 9
                                                                  La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


Figure 3: Proposed Plan for La Costa Avenue, East End




8/17/11                                                 Page 10
                                                               La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


Figure 4: Existing and Photo Simulation of Proposed Bulb Out and Median at Cadencia Street




8/17/11                                                                          Page 11
                                                                 La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


Projected Costs and Traffic Conditions
The Community-Preferred Plan represents an ultimate vision for La Costa Avenue. The
estimated cost for the ultimate plan, including the construction of missing sidewalk segments, is
approximately $3.5-4.5 million. The cost estimates were developed by the city's consultant and
are discussed in more detail in the Technical Memorandum La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan
­ Level of Service Analysis Planning and Cost Estimate included as Appendix C. That
memorandum also considered current and estimated levels-of-service (LOS) for the proposed
improvements and found that the traffic conditions are expected to meet city standards under
current and future conditions, as shown in Table 3.

Table 3: Level of Service Estimates
                                            Existing Volumes &   Horizon Volumes &
                                            Planned Geometric    Planned Geometric
 # Intersection                                 Conditions           Conditions         Control
  AM Peak Hour
   La Costa Avenue at Nueva Castilla
 1 Way                                                 B                 D           Roundabout
   La Costa Avenue at Viejo Castillo
 2 Way                                                 B                 B           Signal
 3 La Costa Avenue at Romeria Street                   A                 A           Roundabout
 4 La Costa Avenue at Cadencia Street                  A                 A           Signal
  PM Peak Hour
   La Costa Avenue at Nueva Castilla
 1 Way                                                 A                 C           Roundabout
   La Costa Avenue at Viejo Castillo
 2 Way                                                 A                 B           Rignal
 3 La Costa Avenue at Romeria Street                   A                 A           Roundabout
 4 La Costa Avenue at Cadencia Street                  A                 B           Rignal


Funding and Phasing Options
The city has $1 million in the budget for new signals on La Costa Avenue that could be
reallocated for improvements. Additional funding would need to be identified to complete the
improvements and could be available through grants or other funding sources. Therefore, it is
important to consider potential phasing opportunities that would allow cost effective
implementation of the plan over time and as funding becomes available.

The restriping of La Costa Avenue the entire length to accommodate wider medians and bike
lanes would be the first action needed. All of the other improvements are based on the
reconfiguration of the lanes to two through lanes, bike lanes and reconfigured medians.
Subsequent construction could be implemented in a number of different ways to address
funding constraints, traffic speed and safety.

During the third community workshop, participants were asked to provide input on potential
phasing options. These include, but are not limited to:

     ·    Install medians west of Viejo Castilla Way
     ·    Install medians east of Viejo Castilla Way
     ·    Install roundabout at Nueva Castilla Way
     ·    Install roundabout at Romeria Street


8/17/11                                                                           Page 12
                                                                La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


    ·     Construct curb extensions/narrowing
    ·     Build missing sidewalks

Comment forms available at the workshop and online asked respondents to indicate their
preferred order of phasing for these elements. Averaging the responses received indicated
preferences in the following order:

    1.    Install roundabout at Nueva Castilla Way
    2.    Install roundabout at Romeria Street
    3.    Construct curb extensions/narrowing
    4.    Install medians west of Viejo Castilla Way
    5.    Install medians east of Viejo Castilla Way
    6.    Build missing sidewalks

Although there may be specific considerations based on available funding, construction
challenges, or opportunities to combine elements to reduce costs or impacts to the street, these
community preferences should be considered in developing a phasing plan for improvements.




8/17/11                                                                           Page 13
                                                                    La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


                                             Appendix 1

                           La Costa Avenue Study Community Survey
                                    Summary of Comments
                                          May 2011

1.        Serious traffic problem at top of La Costa Ave at Rancho Santa Fe. Long, long lines to
          turn left onto RSF. cars waiting on La Costa do not want to let cars on Levante get into
          left-hand turn lane. Dangerous condition. Something needs to be done immediately.
2.        Please do not create traffic jams by reducing the number of lanes on La Costa
3.        Tear it up and start all over again. The raceway is now obsolete! until something is done
          the lawsuits will continue
4.        Need Police just below Nuevo Castillo
5.        Speed enforcement of 45 mph will do wonders. No raised medians. Do not spend
          money to change La Costa Ave.
6.        This stretch of La Costa Ave is a big black hole for bicyclists. It is difficult to go
          eastbound w/o bike lanes or lower speeds. But La Costa Ave west of El Camino Real &
          El Camino Real and Rancho Santa Fe are major bike corridors. This link needs to be
          made bike friendly.
7.        I am really concerned about the speed people drive on La Costa Blvd. I have a 11 and 3
          yr old kids and I do not let them go outside at all unless we are driving. People drive
          extremely fast on this street. Something should be done as soon as possible.
8.        Since I have lived here for the past 15 years, the traffic noise, especially from El Camino
          Real, had increased dramatically due to development.
9.        Raised & landscaped medians combined with less lanes would help most. Sidewalks &
          crosswalks would help too.
10.       Stop light at Nueva Castilla due to poor visibility when entering La Costa Av
11.        People honk at me when I pull out of my driveway because they are going 60-80 mph
          when I pull out. Visitors don't even park on the street because it's impossible to get out
          of the car safely.
12.       So let me see if I got this right. The vast majority of home owners on La Costa AV
          bought their homes knowing fully well that it is a major roadway with periods of heavy
          traffic. That it would require specific driving skills to enter/exit via a driveway but felt
          compelled to do so anyway now want the city to penalize the rest of the community to
          make up for their errors of judgment. Want to walk or ride a bike. Try Calle.
13.       A traffic signals at the corner of La Costa Av and Nueva Castilla Wy is greatly needed.
          Turning left onto La Costa Av from Nueva Castilla Wy is very dangerous a majority of
          the time. A crosswalk and completion of the sidewalk at that intersection is needed as
          well.
14.       Many drivers use La Costa Ave instead of Rancho Santa Fe Rd. It is quite busy around
          4:00 - 5:30. It backs up from Rancho Santa Fe Dr to Caloma Circle.
15.       I am glad you're willing to look at this problem.
16.       My kids walk to school when I see car speeding. Worry about my kids because they
          have to go around and pass La Costa Av.
17.       Rancho Santa Fe gets to keep their street stop signs even though they were meant to
          have a freeway. Why do they get to "impede" traffic and we don't? Money? Power?
          Politics? From Cadencia to Romeria going west, cars fly by. 5 accidents in the last 2
          years alone.




8/17/11                                                                                Page 14
                                                                    La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


18.       I have had problems getting out of my driveway turning right. At my house, there are
          blind spots and on street parking that make it very difficult to get out. The street parking
          should, at least, give 450' of clear distance with the current speed limit.
19.       Speed on La Costa Ave similar to other roads. 55 mph between El Camino Real and I-5
          proper speed. 45 mph elsewhere good speed.
20.       The speed indicators (signs) are great. They remind drivers how fast they are going.
          They should be a speed limit sign next to each though.
21.        I like the new "slow down" sign. I do not like spending a lot of money on reworking the
          road. do not put bike lanes in
22.       no roundabouts. Don't redirect traffic onto Levante due to "improvements" to La Costa.
          Traffic signals @ Levante & La Costa. don't reduce traffic lanes on La Costa. Consider a
          traffic police officer to monitor traffic. No "big box" store on empty lot near La Costa &
          RSF
23.       Definitely need a light signal on La Costa and Esfera. Very dangerous to make a left
          turn. Also bushes make it hard to see if cars are coming when trying to make a left turn.
          Need more signals on La Costa. New speed devices are excellent. really has cars
          slowing. New condo development will definitely need to have signals put in and turn
          lanes.
24.       Do not like the increased traffic because of Albertsons/strip stores.
25.       Please do something for Cadencia- too many cars- speed over 60mph
26.       La Costa Ave is now a main access street to San Marcos. restricting traffic or speed will
          only create more problems. La Costa needs to be 2 lanes in each direction or the traffic
          jams during rush hour will be unbearable.
27.       Speed is too dangerous.
28.       Make 4 lanes divided median similar to La Costa between I-5 and El Camino Real. Do
          not decrease lanes or put in roundabouts
29.       Do not allow bike lanes- bikers are a problem- don't stay in their lanes & they slow flow
          of traffic.
30.       Reduce speed on La Costa Ave. Improve bicycle & pedestrian safety on La Costa
31.       The exit of Nueva Castilla to La Costa is very dangerous.
32.       Limit parking on street. Traffic that is backed up from Racho Santa Fe impedes pulling
          out/in Levante safely
33.       Too Fast! People drive like it's a freeway & always tailgate when you go the speed limit.
          Traffic should not be re-routed to Levante.
34.       Traffic noise on La Costa has been a growing problem. we had to move from our home.
          we found a place just a few blocks away
35.       I would like to see roundabouts and more landscaping to reduce traffic speed and noise
          & make it more pedestrian friendly
36.       Raised medians with landscaping similar to Aviara Pkwy near corner of El Camino Real
          would be aesthetically appealing as well as provide safety- for stretches of road that do
          not need a turn lane for entry to driveways. bike lanes are needed for both sides of road.
          sidewalks are also needed for both sides of road.
37.       Whatever is done, make sure it does not increase traffic on Levante
38.       No Roundabouts
39.       need multilane left turn onto RSF at intersection especially rush hour
40.       The speed signs are a good start add more
41.       I think the main concern will be to reduce speed as much as possible
42.       The speed and noise are the only real down sides of La Costa Ave.
43.       People need to slow down in residential areas
44.       La Costa Ave needs traffic diet sooner than later



8/17/11                                                                                Page 15
                                                                   La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


45.       Please Please enforce traffic law. I obey the speed limit and people ride my bumper,
          curb aggressive driving!
46.       the most effective deterrent to speeding is the presence of Law enforcement
47.       No need for traffic circles or center median. Reducing lanes is ridiculous waste of
          money
48.       No problems the way it is!
49.       The left turn signal at Vieja Castilla Way is a scary place to be. Where cars are
          speeding past you in both directions at 60 mph
50.       Increased traffic enforcement for aggressive driving. I often feel hunted when driving this
          road if I go the speed limit cars race around to pass.
51.       The visibility going into my neighborhood from Dehesa Road. The visibility going in and
          out!
52.       Please do not change La Costa Avenue into one lane. Keep at least two lanes.
53.       Speed limit is too fast for blind curves. Bikes cannot ride safety. Need revamping!
54.       Please no roundabouts they are dangerous.
          Landscape not up to La Costa resort standards. Needs major improvement.
          Traffic signal needed at Nueva Castilla Way
55.       Speeding cars are the biggest issue. Curves& fast cars great a hazardous environment
56.       Garage sales on La Costa Ave weekly are a huge problem. Cars park in the street
          create a safety issue. These garage sales are like a weekly business
57.       Raised 2 children on La Costa Ave and always fear accidents. Have had one already.
          Roundabouts, landscaping, 40 mph max, fewer and wider lanes would add to safety,
          street appeal, and home values
58.       It is very unsafe to allow parking along La Costa Avenue
59.       1. Need to Slow the speeds
          2. any changes made to LCA to slow traffic speeds will push traffic over to Levante,
          Anillo. This happened during the construction due to the hill failure.
60.       Bike riding is dangerous. As an athletic person, but novice road bike rider I avoid La
          Costa Avenue completely. Far too dangerous, esp. eastbound. I would walk much more
          on LCA if sidewalks were more suitable. not too worried about speed but I've been
          around these roads since the 70's so I know where all the bumps, curves & cops are.
61.       I could see where the east bound speed limit might stay the same- as there's no parking
          on the street, and maybe the west bound speed is lowered to 35mph
62.       Roundabout
63.       La Costa Ave has become a treacherous street for the residents who live there. Not only
          is it unsafe to exit your driveway, we have had someone run off the round and hit our
          house, as well as numerous cases where debris from car accidents has ended up in our
          yard. Roundabouts and a raised median would help, but traffic lights are needed as
          well.
64.       The street is fine. The radar speed warning have reduced speed sufficiently. It is a
          waste of taxpayer money to try and manage the traffic or enhance the "beauty" of the
          avenue.
65.       What would be most helpful for pedestrians is an *off street* path to the coast for
          bicycles, walking and jogging - preferably along the marsh. La Costa avenue is so busy
          it is really scary and not that enjoyable.
66.       We don't believe decreasing the number of lanes on La Costa Ave is going to slow
          traffic. It will only make the traffic problems worse. We understand the concerns of
          homeowners along La Costa Ave, but that IS a major thoroughfare and not a small
          residential street. Homeowners need to understand that. We use La Costa Ave several
          times per day to take our kids to LCH Elem School and LCC H.S. A traffic signal at



8/17/11                                                                               Page 16
                                                                    La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


          Esfera & La Costa Ave would be most helpful in accessing La Costa from Esfera in the
          morning and late afternoons. Thank you!
67.       I can understand that residents on this street might object to traffic. However, this is a
          major east-west thoroughfare and the City of Carlsbad must consider the needs of the
          motorist as well as those of the resident. The speed limit of 45 mph is reasonable for a
          curved and undulating roadway and if any improvement is needed, it is the addition of a
          second lane on the Eastern extremity of this road.
68.       Very dangerous road. need more stop lights.
69.       I sympathize with the residents on this road who I am sure want to see all traffic move
          much slower. However, I personally as a driver mostly using La Costa as an efficient
          throughway do not want to see traffic speeds significantly slowed or see changes to the
          road that would introduce bottlenecks or traffic delays. Having said that, as I mentioned
          above, speaking as a pedestrian rather than a driver, I do feel that additional controls on
          vehicles are necessary to improve the safety of pedestrians, particularly at the
          intersection of La Costa and El Camino. Thank you for soliciting our feedback!
70.       I use La Costa Ave west end everyday and its fine, save your money and do nothing.
          For once do the right thing, the people love it rural, it fits our community. Don't let one
          accident or mishap change our streets.
71.       Widen it! Do not, do not, do not make La Costa 2 lanes
72.       Please do not narrow La Costa Avenue. That would be very counterproductive as the
          area grows.
73.       leave it alone
74.       the road is fine
75.       no roundabouts
76.       leave it like it is
77.       leave La Costa alone
78.       enforcement
79.       enforcement
80.       no roundabouts
81.       do not reduce lanes
82.       do not slow traffic down
83.       Levante is my concern
84.       leave it the way it is
85.       enforce the speed limit
86.       sidewalks
87.       it's fine the way it is!
88.       one lane each way is absurd
89.       This is a non-issue
90.       more enforcement
91.       one lane each way is a bad idea
92.       Bad idea to make this a one lane route
93.       La Costa Ave does not need to be changed
94.       No parking on La Costa Ave
95.       2 lanes each way
96.       My ONE biggest gripe is the synchronization of the traffic signals at Town Ctr & El
          Camino Real, especially on the Westbound lanes. Several times I have personally
          needed to call Traffic to re-set the signals to allow synchronized passage west-bound
          thru the 2 signals. When these are NOT in sync, I need to ADD an extra TEN minutes to
          any La Costa Av. Westbound trip I make.
97.       Pot holes. I believe traffic speed should be reduced to 35 miles per hour



8/17/11                                                                               Page 17
                                                                     La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


98.       I would never walk on La Costa Ave because it is too dangerous, loud, cars & trucks
          create too much fumes. Plus there are no sidewalks cars go too fast.
99.       I actually LIKE the fact I live near an efficient roadway
          I would like to see more sidewalks
100.      would like to see bike lanes
101.      Please change the timing of the light by the Albertsons center. Left turn lights should be
          added on the north & south entrance to La Costa
102.      If it aint broke, don't fix it.
103.      Turning off La Costa to go home people are speeding behindme. I have my turn signal
          on & they don't slow up. I always think i'm going to get hit.
104.      East of LCA before Romeria turn it back to 2 lanes right turn only. People merge left &
          the back right- it's not good now making a right turn from Cadencia to La Costa Ave is
          difficult-
105.      There needs to be bicycle lanes on both sides of La Costa Ave
106.      bicyclists ride 2 or 3 abreast which puts them in the auto area- can something be done
          about this?
107.      No roundabouts at any intersection
108.      Reduce the speed limit to 35 Mph
109.      Too many cars to fast! scary ride
110.      I am concerned that any changes made to La Costa will increase the likelihood that
          Levante will become a bypass. I am more concerned about peds & bikes than I am
          about residents who purchased homes with access problems. I don't want public funds
          to fix a private problem
111.      We really appreciate your attention to this very vital issue
          Thank You!
112.      I don't have any problems except for street maintenance
113.      Review street parking to insure least obstructed views for all traffic trying to merge on to
          La Costa- example: looking east when stopped at Gibralter Street parked cars block
          view, which is short due to oncoming traffic coming over hill.
114.      I would like to see evidence that traffic or street changes on La Costa Ave will not result
          in more traffic on Levante St which is already overwhelmed with overflow and speeding
          traffic
115.      The stop signs they have along Levante has helped to slow traffic as well as all those
          stop signs in Del Mar
116.      It is a Major street- do not make it smaller or slower!
117.      Improved landscaping is desperately needed! Traffic safety for La Costa Ave residents!
118.      While traffic on La Costa Ave is a concern I feel the city has much bigger problems it
          should be dealing with.
119.      People in general drive very fast. I'm concern about people who are working and people
          that are on bikes
120.      You insist that it must "function as a main east-west corridor" and it is "designated as a
          "secondary arterial" this is nonsense. Think outside the bureaucratic box... Undesignate
          it or propose to the appropriate gov't agency that it be redesignated. When your main
          premise is incorrect, nothing that follows will be correct. thank you for this opportunity to
          give input.
121.      This request has been seriously started a long time ago and need to be done soon
          before more accidents or death or law suit
122.      The street should not be modified. we need availability of current access to work,
          shopping & freeway. I would rather see more speed signs to keep speeders from
          exceeding the limit. Traffic will only increase.
123.      radar/random speed enforcement


8/17/11                                                                                 Page 18
                                                                     La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


124.      Overall I am happy with La Costa Ave as it currently is.
125.      The speed limit of 45 is appropriate but no one drives it! people easily drive 60 on that
          road. The new "slow Down" signs on north side of street are working well. add some to
          south side as well.
126.      1. Will there be a shopping plaza opposite CVS? if so-think about the traffic then
          2. If going to 2 lanes- we need more lights to get out of side streets Nueva Castilla Way
127.      Main Concerns
          1, safe exit on to La Costa Ave from my house
          2. Traffic Speeds
          3. Traffic Noise
          4. Traffic pollution
          5. Lack of sidewalks
128.      Red no Parking Zones block my vision coming out of driveway. cars park right behind it
          no parking at all east up the hill would be better
129.      I like the one lane each direction. Idea but wonder if that won't cause more issues
          during peak houre (5-7pm east bound is bad) Please, No Roundabouts!!
130.      Any change in La Costa Ave. must also insure that Levante does not become an
          alternative route. Levante already has a speed problem posing a added risk to the La
          Costa Heights elementary school children who walk to and from their homes. many
          residents also jog along Levante& cross street.
131.      Left turn lane onto Vieja Castilla dangerous. While waiting for green arrow, always
          concerned about being hit head-on by oncoming traffic.
132.      No parking should be allowed on La Costa Ave. The condos have specific parking and
          owners should park in their designated areas. In turning out of our subdivision on
          Fairway Ln, it is dangerous to try to look around all the autos parked and get onto the
          street with the oncoming traffic going 45-50 miles per hour.
133.      Please do not reduce the number of lanes. Too many cars in a single lane will put the
          cars closer together, which may actually increase the likelihood of accidents.
134.      The mph/slow down signs seem to have had an impact.
135.      Do not agree that number of lanes need to be reduced. Synchronized lights to posted
          speed limit.
136.      Would want bike lane on both side of street and public transportation.
137.      Do not choke the traffic by lane reduction. Traffic signals can be an effective flow
          control.
138.      Reducing travel lanes to one in each direction is not wise. It will create traffic jams, block
          emergency vehicles, and cause driver frustration and risky behavior. As traffic volume
          increases over time, more lanes will be required.
139.      How in the city planning do central traffic on Levante St a residential street with 25 mph
          limit, which is more often then not ignored by drivers? If traffic is restricted on La Costa
          Ave the over flow will inevitebly come to Levante St since it is the closest thru streets
          between El Camino Real and RSF.
140.      More radar cops to control speed, use money from speeders to keep La Costa safer
          and clean up landscape east of El Camino Real. We need median just east of Bank of
          America. Cars are going to fast crossing into oncoming traffic and plowing into fence
          where people walk. Also hard to do speed limit going west, due to downhill grading.
141.      From La Costa - making a left to Calle Madero is scary because I use the middle lane -
          but people coming from the opposite direction use the same place to make the left to
          Gibraltar. So many times I've almost got into an accident. It would be nice to have a bike
          lane
142.      It's turned into a dangerous freeway.



8/17/11                                                                                 Page 19
                                                                    La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


143.      We would like to see the traffic speed on La Costa reduced significantly if possible.
          Thank you.
144.      Make two lanes - center landscaping with roundabouts at every intersection. That way,
          there would be no cars idling (fumes) and motorcycles revving at stop lights and traffic
          would be slowed significantly. La Costa is a neighborhood street, not a freeway, it is
          currently being used as a freeway. Roundabouts would allow a continual flow of traffic at
          reduced speed, and would possibly encourage commuters to use other "arteries" to the
          freeway (from San Elijo, etc.)
145.      Motorcyclists and cars seem to routinely race, screech tires, rev engines while
          driving/stopping on La Costa Ave.
146.      La Costa is a major artery. Future development at RSF commercial will increase use.
          Only one lane on La Costa will result in more use of Levante - and a neighborhood
          safety concern for all children and families.
147.      I would like to see palm tres planted in medians between El Camino Real and I-5
148.      It's manageable as it is, but please don't embark upon some multi-month, multi-million
          dollar improvement. It ain't broke, please DO NOT try and fix it.
149.      La Costa Ave is dangerous for pedestrians and has become a major artery for San
          Marcos residents. Carlsbad's lack of planning and overgrowth has created problems
          that can never be mitigated. Good luck.
150.      I take LC Ave from Nueva Cassilla Way to RSF. I don't see much of a problem in that
          stretch.
151.      This road is a major artery. It should not be changed to 2 lanes. Not appropriate!
152.      Carlsbad PD/Volunteers might be a visible deterrent during peak travel times if possible.
153.      Discontinue on street parking. Landscape medians. Do not use roundabouts or
          decrease number of lanes.
154.      Cars come racing down hill toward El Camino Real. Very dangerous to pull out to street
          from apartments - especially when parked cars block view - noise very similar to the
          Daytona 500 - Thank you for your concern with this area.
155.      We have witnessed (heard) way too many accidents at Calle Madero since moving here
          in 2004. Speeds are too fast and visibility from Calle Madero is impaired give traffic
          speed. Should not be a "secondary arterial" in the first place. That's what RSF is for!
156.      Traffic light on Dehesa folks coming from the 78 on RSF then turn onto La Costa at a
          speed you wouldn't believe to the downhill slope. It's downright scary! Traffic light on
          Dehesa Court - often there are lines up to turn right to go to Encinitas. You are blocked
          by bumper to bumper traffic wanting to turn left of RSF.
157.      Pulling out of La Costa vale neighborhood from Dadencia onto La Costa making a right
          towards RSF it is a blind corner and the speed of vehicles is too fast. Something needs
          to be done on that corner.
158.      I've lived here for 46 years and have been driving for 30 years. I've seen this area grow
          but La Costa Ave has always been a main traffic street. I am guessing that most of
          these homeowners purchased their homes after 1972. With that said, they choose to
          live on La Costa Ave with the issues it has. I only know of one street that has had
          several accidents and that street should get a stop light. To avoid parked cars being hit
          all of La Costa Ave could be a no parking street or the speed limit could be lowered.
159.      Visibility at Nuevo Castillo onto La Costa - growth of foliage on south west corner is
          dangerous.
160.      La Costa should be 4 lanes from i-5 to RSF. Going down from 4 to 2 and back up
          makes no sense. Further projections should determine number of lanes to RSF.
161.      The traffic lights that are in place adequately control the flow of traffic on La Costa Ave.




8/17/11                                                                                Page 20
                                                                    La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


162.      Make the road less friendly to motorists. Enforce speeds. Use cameras. Use
          roundabouts. Make heavy hauling trucks and also heavy equipment use Palomar Rd. It
          is very important to have rapid action on this project.
163.      Please reconsider keeping La Costa Ave four lanes. My concern is emergency
          evacuation in the event of a harmony grove repeat. Delays in police, fire and
          paramedics. The letter does not address delays in emergency services.
164.      Having a like scale from 0-3 is no efficient for this survey because it reduces variability
          and increases the chances of a ceiling or floor effect when reviewing the data - which
          can make interpreting the data difficult.
165.      It is very unsafe to right exit Albertsons on the south side, hedge blocks the view to left
          side of car, hedge needs to be trimmed.
166.      Lived on La Costa Ave since 1979. It was a mess then with all garbage trucks using it.
          That was resolved but with new construction it just gets worse! With the new project
          planned at La Costa and RSF its going to be a MESS!
167.      Please address safety issues related to a left turn from Nueva Castillo to La Costa.
          Worried about increased traffic on out street (Levante) if changes are made to La Costa.
168.      Having radar police is the best deterrent. I wouldn't oppose signals, but would oppose
          roundabouts or raised speed humps.
169.      Enforce the speed limit. Do not reduce the number of lanes. This wil create more traffic
          conditions also the side walk is over grown. Unable to walk without entering the street.
          Bushes and weeds need to be cut back and fences need to be repaired.
170.      The new signs, speed monitors, and prior existing signs are too much. Its rather
          irritating and gives a negative over bearing feel to my drive now.
171.      The street is fine. Poor drivers and people racing or impaired cause the problems. Do
          not waste any money or time on their witch hunt.
172.      1. There should be attended school crossings at several points in La Costa druing
          school hours.
          2. We have had two serious accidents in front of our home due to speed. In one a truck
          flipped over and totaled our sons car.
173.      The lane reduction invites drivers to accelerate.
174.      Would like to have a convex mirror at Levante and La Costa Ave so cars coming out of
          Levante can see traffic in both directions on La Costa.
175.      In general La Costa Ave works in spite of curves in road. The signs, speed monitors
          appear to be working well. I've seen no accidents in 9 years. I'd limit future development
          on La Costa itself to minimize future use along the actual road. Have less density in
          projects along the active winding section of road. Thanks.
176.      This would stop many issues with people pulling in and out of their houses. Only one
          direction of traffic.
177.      Reduce speed and have police presence during busy hours. Do NOT reduce lanes as
          traffic will divert to Levante which has a grammar school.
178.      La Costa Ave needs to have regular speed control, people drive 55 through residential
          area often.
179.      A warning sign would be helpful approaching Nueva Castilla going east on La Costa. It
          is extremely hazardous when turning west on La Costa from Nueva Castella. I have
          lived here since 1979 and realize that more traffic is natural - however speeds on La
          Costa should be monitored with a flashing sign if possible.
180.      My main concern is the appearance where the landslide was. The aesthetics have not
          been dealt with years later.
181.      Pavement markings to make the street look narrower - widen bike lane. Cut hedges at
          every side street to enter and exit La Costa Ave. Bike lanes ought to be EXTRA wide.



8/17/11                                                                               Page 21
                                                                   La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


182.      1. If the city is going to put more traffic lights on La Costa Ave, make sure they are
          sequenced to allow smooth traffic flow.
          2. Making La Costa into 1 lane is a dumb idea.
183.      This is whining people who made a mistake buying a house on a main artery screw up
          La Costa and people will use LeVante as an alternative causing even more problems
          and whiners.
184.      Definitely need good bike lanes with visible signs especially going east - very
          dangerous.
185.      I suggest leaving the existing median and 2 eastbound lanes. Reduce westbound to one
          lane so homeowners can have more room to back out of their garages.
186.      Don't make changes if you slow it down traffic will back up and cars will be there all the
          time.
187.      It needs to be 4 lane between El Camino Real and RSF.
188.      Thank you for working to ensure safety and still preserve the "residential" feel of La
          Costa Ave.
189.      Please build sidewalks all along both sides of La Costa Ave.
190.      Question #1 - What is Meant by: Operation of on-street parking?
          Recommend the use of noise reduction pavement materials that were used in other
          Carlsbad areas.
191.      It seems to me that the radius of the curvature of the road changes abruptly in some
          places. This causes some drivers to drift away from the center of the lane, possibly into
          another lane.
192.      Do not decrease the number of lanes on La Costa Ave. Traffic would be a nightmare.
193.      We have never experienced a problem. We believe that reducing lanes is a horrible
          idea! This is NOT how we should be using out limited dollars. Instead enforce speed
          limits. Thank you for including the community in your planning.
194.      Not really sure how to deal with speed on LCA... Im even guilty sometimes. More CPD
          presence would help(sometimes) maybe speed trailer. But there definitely needs to be
          bike lanes on entire upper section(east of ECR)
195.      Carlsbad police with radar guns to control speeding. A bad plan to reduce La Costa Ave
          to 2 lanes. Concern about getting into and out of my driveway. Need center medium to
          make left turn into many driveways.
196.      Change speed limit, control u-turns, raise medians so residents cant turn east from
          driveways. Flashing speed signs great idea.
197.      Need other street connections between El Camio & RSF that are easily accessible.
198.      If houses had to be built on La Costa Ave circular driveways should have been
          mandated to drivers would not have to back out into traffic.
199.      Why change to 2 lanes when proper traffic officers and fines would eliminate those that
          speed.
200.      I only use La Costa Ave from Albertsons shopping center. It is impossible to make a
          right on a red - no visibility and cars speeding down hill.
201.      The biggest contributor of the noise is the 45 mph speed limit. It would be great if the
          speed limit was reduced as some, if not many, of the houses on La Costa Ave are very
          close to the street.
202.      Roads were made for cars, bicycle lanes were made for bicycles, sidewalks were
          designed for people. Two lane roads are for cars - not one lane for bicycles and
          runners.
203.      Install stop signs to slow traffic at RSF thru Olivenhain except longer intervals between
          stop signs.
204.      Over 20 years and speed is not kept in control.



8/17/11                                                                              Page 22
                                                                   La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


205.      Reduce to one lane in each direction. This is already the case with a good portion on La
          Costa and implementing if for the rest of the portion between El Camio and RSF would
          allow us to safely get out of our driveways and merge into the lane.
206.      I am concerned that the planned changes will cause people to drive through the surface
          streets in our neighborhood in order to avoid La Costa Ave. We already have people
          speeding down Segovia Way to avoid traffic on RSF.
207.      If you make changes to slow traffic on La Costa you need to address traffic on Levante
          too. Our neighborhood is already being used by people cutting through from El Camino
          Real to RSF to avoid traffic on La Costa Ave. They speed through our neighborhood at
          excessive levels and blow thru the stop signs. Maybe you could install speed bumps on
          Levante while you are upgrading La Costa.
208.      Install landscape center medians and sidewalks.
209.      Please do NOT reduce lanes to 2. It would cause more traffic problems.
210.      La Costa Ave needs guard rails on all curves and enforcement of speed limit or lowering
          of that limit. Possibly high mph speed bumps might help.
211.      Thanks for light and green turn arrow at Uregu Castillo.
212.      So exciting to see what comes of this! Thank you for asking for public opinion.
213.      Reduce speed.
214.      1. Enhance character and aesthetics of street by providing or requiring all mailboxes be
          uniform and of attractive design. Current hodge-podge of boxes is a detractor and
          negative impact on street.
          2. Maintain 2 lanes both ways.
215.      Do NOT cut the number of lanes!!
216.      Sides secondary street signings are not visible. The drivers slow down on La Costa to
          find the address. Traffic speed and noises are most concerned
217.      Create better community street character and traffic will slow down.
218.      Place no roundabouts
219.      The speed at which cars drive from RSF towards ECR is typically above the speed limit.
          My main concern is the high speed and the many blind intersections.
220.      People speed horribly and there are too many cars using La Costa. It's awful and
          unsafe.
221.      Traffic speed isn't the problem. Don't make it out to be one. Proper controls make life
          easier for those of us who live here.
222.      We need turnabouts, traffic lights, anything to slow down traffic.
223.      I have seen to many accidents on a street with driveway access. I live 2 blocks off La
          Costa and still hear motorcycles and cars racing into early morning. I drive out of my
          way to access la Costa at a light because there are to many t-bones by my closest
          access to La Costa.
224.      Never thought it to be much of a problem in the 1st place.
225.      There have been many accidents on La Costa Ave and Nueva Castilla. People go to
          fast! Same is true on Levante. Most don't even stop at the stop signs!
226.      People drive in fast lane going east because drainage dips in road, cars bottom out.
          Traffic use on Levante St is increasing due to high volume on La Costa Ave which
          makes it hard to back out of driveways.
227.      We drive this street daily and walk it several times a week. We must make a left turn on
          Esfera to reach our house. We have no problems with current conditions. Do not add
          lights! Do not reduce lanes! Changes would make driving La Costa more difficult and
          frustrating. Roundabouts would be horrid. I hate them in Encinitas. Dont listen to a vocal
          few. Remember that traffic will increase if the shopping plaza opens - dont even think
          about reducing lanes.
228.      Reduce speed limits, add more traffic lights, particularly at "T" intersection.


8/17/11                                                                              Page 23
                                                                     La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


229.      I walk my children to school and have to cross La Costa - it is very scary with the speed
          of the traffic. A crosswalk at Esfera & La Costa would help I feel to slow traffic down.
          Also at the corner the trees are so thick you can't see oncoming traffic unless you stick
          far out in the street.
230.      We would be opposed to traffic circles as drivers misuse them and they impede traffic
          flow. We are open to a change in speed limit or other small changes to make driving on
          La Costa Ave.
231.      The "your speed is XXX" is good warning to slow down. Need right turn only lane for
          east bound La Costa at RSF. Perhaps widen or 2 left turn lanes onto RSF.
232.      Leave the street as it is. Do not pander to a small group of citizens who would be happy
          to stop all automobile traffic.
233.      No street parking.
234.      The speed of vehicles rounding the blind curve between RSF and Dehesa Ct is
          excessive but speed limits are not enforced on the curve. We never see policemen
          controlling speed in this location.
235.      Street signs are placed too far back on corners - not visible until after drivers pass street
          result is a lot of turning around and 'u' turns at corners and intersections - dangerous -
          caused many accidents.
          Drivers are inattentive - always doing something ­ cell phone, texting, reading, looking
          at other passengers and talking while driving - reaching for something on back seat.
236.      We love our home, but our constantly concerned about our safety from the speeding
          vehicles. We believe that roundabouts and more stop lights as they have on Leucadia
          Blvd would help immensely. It is only a matter of time before a horrendous accident is
          going to occur.
237.      Resurfacing needed.
238.      Signs/Lights have not changed speeder habits. There needs to be "actual" slow down
          barriers to inhibit speeds. It it not safe to cross La Costa Ave even at the lights. People
          do not heed pedestrians or bikes.
239.      It could be made safer. 45 seems fast. Don't turn in into a street with a light every block
          so it takes 15 min to get to the freeway or beach.
240.      If La Costa Ave becomes less of a thru streets will Levante take its place? I hope not.
241.      La Costa Ave is UNSAFE for bicycles. Should promote Levante as a more suitable bike
          route.
242.      The intersection of La Costa and Cadencia is extremely dangerous. Right turning traffic
          from Cadencia onto La Costa (east bound) should not be permitted on red.
243.      Please, NO ROUNDABOUTS!!! The concept works for some areas, but not for La Costa
          Ave.
244.      Please do something about the motorcycles "bikes" that race up La Costa Ave. I will not
          believe they are street legal. Sometimes 5 to 10 go up the street at one time, the noise
          is deafening.
245.      Nuevo Castillo entry onto La Costa is very dangerous.
246.      Perfect the way it is.
247.      Way too much traffic and too fast. Especially in few blocks near Nuevo Castillo
          intersection. Lots of speeding there.
248.      I drive safely and follow the speed limit. It's a main road and I don't see any problems.
          I've lived here in the same house for 35 years. The people that bought a house RIGHT
          on La Costa Ave are on a main street and that's too bad for them. They bought knowing
          they were on a main street. They have to be careful when they back out of their
          driveways. What do you expect- lower the speed limit to 25- that's not realistic. I don't
          think there are any problems with La Costa Ave. It's a main thoroughfare just like
          Melrose Ave. or Alga Rd.


8/17/11                                                                                 Page 24
                                                                      La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


249.      The issue of blocked visibility on the south west corner of Nueva Castilla/La Costa Ave.
          intersection is ongoing and dangerous.
250.      -4 lanes must be maintained
          -Control speed with stop signs/lights
          -No bicycle traffic - road too narrow - cyclists can use Calle Barcalona
          -Roundabouts are a WASTE of money!
          -Forget Landscaping!
          -Remember - No amount of money or legislation can correct stupidity!
251.      Suggest a no-right turn on red lights. La Costa Ave @ Saxony Rd.
252.      Do not add raised medians if there are speed bumps or turnarounds or roundabouts.
253.      No roundabouts or street lights. Carlsbad lights are poorly managed. Roundabouts are
          still known to cause accidents and many do not know how to drive them.
254.      I feel that changing La Costa to 1 lane will impact traffic in a negative way. If people
          drive the speed limit of 45 it should solve your problem.
255.      La Costa Ave. and Tamarack Ave. are very dangerous. Build roundabouts!!!
256.      Sidewalks are a major concern for my family. We would really like to use the sidewalk to
          jog or walk between El Camino Real and Vieja Castilla, but do not feel safe doing so.
          Much of the northern sidewalk along La Costa is obstructed by mailboxes, plants, or
          other overgrown vegetation, and are impossible with a baby stroller. The only option is
          to veer into the bike lane if it isn't blocked by parked cars. If it is, you must approach the
          vehicle lanes to pass by. A partial solution would include more landscape maintenance
          of overgrown vegetation, and also legislation to prohibit mailboxes or other obstruction
          of the side walk by residents property.
257.      Making a right turn onto La Costa from Gibraltor Street is dangerous when the stop light
          at Romeria is green. The speed or many cars is extreme -heading up hill to the west. I
          suggested to the police that the motorcycle cops hang out at the top of the hill, just east
          of Gibraltar, but the officer I spoke with got angry for my suggestion making a left turn
          onto Gibraltar St is also dangerous because of the high speed cars com up the hill
          heading west. Often my household members will head over to Romeria to turn right on
          La Costa because we have a better view of the cars speeding, than if we turn right onto
          La Costa from Gibraltar St. There are quite a few seniors in the Gibraltar St./Jerez
          neighborhood. My household likes the idea of only one lane in each direction for La
          Costa. When I drive the speed limit on La Costa, I often get tail gated, honked at, an
          extended finger, etc. I think another stop light is needed to slow traffic. One of the two
          streets on the south side of La Costa just west of Gibraltar. All of the stop lights on La
          Costa should turn red more often, stopping La Costa Ave traffic, not just when there is
          cross traffic from the side streets (Romeria, Vieja, Castilla).
258.      We don't need any more useless signals. We need to GET PLACES! and that road is a
          main artery! Time the lights we have now better! We are always sitting at lights you
          need to change the lights to exact opposite of what they are now! We all go down the
          road after waiting for 5 min. At a light, they HIT A YELLOW/RED LIGHT! DO THE
          EXACT OPPOSITE! We need to get places and your allowing the side road people
          priority is ridiculous.
259.      My primary safety concerns are cars turning onto La Costa in an unsafe manner and
          encroachment onto the road by carless bicyclist.
260.      Suggest the city consider a demonstration project to reduce traffic lanes to 2 or 3 place
          a 'K' rail barrier between d/w access and through traffic if it workds consturct permanent
          improvements driveways.
261.      I am concerned if the street is narrowed to a 2 lane road it will create even more traffic
          since it's the main way to get to I-5



8/17/11                                                                                  Page 25
                                                                         La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


          Reducing speeds using roundabouts at intersections and creating a center median will
          allow people to merge onto the road, reduce speeds, and limit left hand turns into traffic.
262.      The road diet plan is a very poor solution to the drive and safety issues on La Costa.
          Reducing four lanes to two is like trying to step back in time before all the housing and
          commercial developments. With the additional future housing and commercial
          developments it will make local residents drive time horrible. No parking and no left
          turns will be inconvenient for home owners on the east side of La Costa, however they
          will be safer. It will be difficult to have a traffic plan that will satisfy all residents. So some
          difficulty for the hundred or so residents on the east side of La Costa is reasonable
          compared to the extended drive time for the thousands of residents that use La Costa
          as their main thoroughfare.
263.      Please do not put up with stopsign/ stop lights etc. that will impede the commuters using
          this main east-west road to get to the freeway. Anyone who was dumb enough to buy a
          house on La Costa Ave deserved to have difficulty to deal with the noise. Why should
          98% of people using this road be concerned because of a few dumb people who now
          regret they bought there?
264.      Roundabouts are not appropriate!
          Sidewalks are needed
          Stop lights could ease up the problem of residents merging into traffice
          We need that road "Wide & Flowing" for the amount of traffic it services
          Medians would push traffic closer to the driveways of residents.
265.      NO MORE TRAFFICE LIGHTS
266.      We live on Levante St, which parallels La Costa Ave. If many changes are made to La
          Costa Ave, we are concerned that drivers will choose Levante as an alternate, which
          could create other problems.
          La Costa Ave. is too unsafe for bicycles. It shouldn't have bike lanes & should have
          signs directing bikes to take the safer Levante Street.
          Consider installing a low dividing wall on center divider at dangerous curve locations,
          similar to what exists on Torrey Pines Road grade in San Diego.
267.      The staya both going into Albertson needs turn signal on N-S sides. The speed on Vieja
          Castilo is bad - up & down. They just zoom.
268.      NO ROUNDABOUTS!
269.      Close La Costa Ave at Rancho Santa Fe as it originally was. Provide access to
          emergency vehicles only.
270.      I have been a resident just off of Gibralter and La Costa for many years, and use the
          road to get everywhere since there is no other road out. The construction of San Elijo
          Hills added a huge amount of traffic, which the City is responsible for allowing. The
          traffic implications should have been taken into consideration before that construction
          was started. I heard one plan was to reduce the number of lanes down to one each way
          on La Costa. This would be unacceptable as it would mean huge traffic delays
          especially during rush hour. Roundabouts are a good idea that seem to work well in
          England.
271.      It is outrageous to turn La Costa Ave. into one lane each way. There are many sensible
          ways to control the traffic. Please don't make this thoroughfare smaller which will cause
          gridlock.
272.      No roundabouts!
273.      Am a cyclist who lives directly off La Costa Ave. I occasionally ride westbound, but am
          even nervous about this as I sometimes need to come out into lanes of traffic to avoid
          parked cars. I NEVER would consider riding on the east side of the road and am worried
          when I see cyclists doing so - no bike lanes, high rates of car speed, and blind curves. It
          is only a matter of time before someone is killed.


8/17/11                                                                                      Page 26
                                                                    La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


274.      Simply reducing the speed to 35 would have significant impact at minimal expense.
          People are afraid of getting tickets on La Costa already and reducing the speed limit
          would have a net effect of significantly decreased speeds and improved safety. La
          Costa is not a bottleneck and reducing the speed will not change this however reducing
          lanes might without the desired results. Please do not create a bottleneck on La Costa
          with your good intentions.
          At the end of La Costa though, changing the lanes on East bound La Costa at the
          Rancho Santa Fe intersection to two left turn lanes and a single straight lane or one left,
          one left & straight lane and a single straight lane would also solve the bottleneck issue
          at this intersection although the second option would require a change to the light timing
          if there is any.
          Reducing the speed on La Costa would have no impact on this daily bottleneck and
          resulting safety issue.
          In the end, please employ KISS and simply reduce the speed limit before spending
          taxpayer money.
275.      A sign that says 'entering residential area' doesn't tell me anything more then seeing
          houses along the street. Eliminate all parking near driveways, that will help a lot.
276.      La Costa Avenue is too big and busy a street for myself and many of our neighbors to
          feel safe enough to let our school age children walk to and from school across La Costa
          Ave.
277.      We travel La Costa Avenue daily and feel reducing the speed limit in the residential
          areas would be the best solution. If La Costa Avenue is narrowed to one lane each
          direction, there would be major traffic jams daily. In addition, residents attempting to
          enter the stream of traffic would have to wait an inordinate length of time.
278.      It is a high volume road and will need to remain especially when La Costa and Rancho
          Santa Fe gets built. My family of six have lived on Cadencia St for 31 yrs and never had
          a problem. It was clear 31 yrs ago it was a main road. Circles and stop signs or speed
          bumps will only create flow problems for the entire area. If people wanted to live on a 30
          MPH road, they should have moved on one.
279.      Lighted crosswalk similar to those on Carlsbad Blvd. N. of Tamarack beach
          (intersections where traffic lights are at present).
280.      We feel that La Costa Ave. works well as it is. The street is only unsafe if a driver
          violates the speed limit. A police presence and huge fines are appropriate as well as
          better attorneys to defend our city against law breakers who are negligent and sue.
281.      I am an avid runner and cyclist, and cannot bike on La Costa because there are no
          lanes for a large portion of the street, and everyone speeds on it! I am thankful the City
          of Carlsbad is looking at this problem now. Thank you.
282.      Cycling near El Camino Real/ La Costa Blvd /especially along the Coast Hwy can be
          very dangerous cars are too fast and signage needs to be posted warning of cyclists
          and pedestrians.
283.      The operational speed of La Costa Avenue is 10-15 mph higher than appropriate for the
          adjacent land use, which is solely residential between the Chabad House and Rancho
          Santa Fe Road. The ratio of drivers using La Costa Avenue to access Rancho Santa Fe
          Road to those living in residences along La Costa Avenue is too high. Measures
          discouraging through traffic should be implemented.
284.      improve safety for cyclists and pedestrians - can use landscaping features, bike lanes,
          sidewalks
285.      Lowering the speed limit to 35 or 40 may help because most people go between 50-55
          mph.
286.      I work in Carlsbad and bicycle frequently in the area



8/17/11                                                                               Page 27
                                                                      La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


287.      the bike lane up the last part of the hill is great, but there are sections with no bike lane
          and it's a blind or semi blind corner for drivers. I bike and drive it several times a week.
288.      Make the street more bike friendly for safety.
289.      thanks for trying to make it better.
290.      Currently we can only safely turn right out of our driveway. As drivers, we need
          somewhere to safely u-turn (at Vieja Castilla). As pedestrians, we would like to be able
          to cross at Calle Madero so we can walk to the elementary school.
          It's a lower priority for us, but currently there are locations on the existing sidewalk
          where it is not possible to fit a stroller through - the lampposts and mailboxes impede on
          the walking space. Strollers have to pass on the road and if there is a car parked in that
          location, strollers have to pass in the line of traffic. Mailboxes often impede the path and
          so runners are often in the parking lanes. It is very dangerous.
291.      La Costa Avenue between El Camino Real and Rancho Santa Fe needs speed
          restrictions and better bicycle lanes.
292.      We live in a high use bicycle area. Tourists, residents, and folks enjoying the north
          coastal region need safe bike lanes. Thanks.
293.      I do not want to see the number of lanes reduced on La Costa Avenue. This would be a
          step backward! This road has been a busy and ugly road since I moved here almost 25
          years ago. Many Carlsbad residents rely on this road for quick access to I-5 and El
          Camino Real. Reducing the speed, adding traffic signals, and reducing lanes will only
          make travel more difficult. When the commercial area is built up, more cars will use this
          road to get to the new shopping centers and there will be greater congestion. While it is
          probably true that it is difficult for residents to leave their driveways quickly, if they wait
          for the lights to change and use care, I believe that they can leave safely. I would like to
          see this road made more attractive with plants and trees and a true bike lane.
294.      With the weather we enjoy in So Cal, there really should be more bike lanes for folks to
          use for both commuting and for recreation!
295.      I have major trouble getting from Levante, turning right on La Costa and left on RSF.
          There is always a line up to turn left and no way to get across traffic to get over in that
          lane from Levante. Maybe 2 left turn lanes would help. Also, bike lanes going east
          would be a huge asset. Thanks.
296.      Please distinguish between La Costa avenue East of Rancho Santa Fe Road and the
          rest of La Costa Avenue. The eastern portion is a route children use to get to schools,
          including La Costa Canyon and Mission Estancia. Also--I have heard that the city is
          planning to decrease the number of lanes on La Costa Avenue. I am strongly opposed
          to that solution, as traffic is only likely to increase as the La Costa Town Center
          (planned for corner of RSF Road) progresses.
297.      Bike lanes are needed....lots of cyclists use this road and cars travel very fast in both
          directions.
298.      Signs reminding drivers to share the road w/cyclists, reminding them that cyclists have
          the right to ride along LC Ave safely. Also, some kind of signage indicating to yield to
          cyclists when turning onto 5-N heading westbound on La Costa would help--very
          dangerous there
299.      This is one of a few east-west corridors and I do not feel safe on my bicycle. I currently
          have to go quite a distance out of my way if on my bike.
300.      Make one side for Bike/walk path for both east and west bike and walk traffic similar to
          the north side of san elijo rd from Schoolhouse way to Questhaven.
301.      A bike lane like they used to have years ago would be great. Riding up that hill is very
          unsafe due to widening of the lanes for cars
302.      Road conditions of La Costa east of El Camino are somewhat dangerous for cyclists.



8/17/11                                                                                   Page 28
                                                                    La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


303.      Continuing the way La Costa Avenue was fixed between El Camino Real and the coast
          would be a great thing. Another excellent plan to copy is the La Costa Valley one. We
          really don't need to reinvent the wheel - just do what we know works well and looks
          great.
304.      Let's make our roads safer for people who are being green and keeping healthy as well.
305.      I've ridden my bike on La Costa Ave for over 30 years now. Those blind curves, narrow
          bike lanes and high traffic speeds coupled w/drivers disdain for the rights of cyclists
          make it a very dangerous place to ride. I avoid it whenever possible.
306.      I ride my bike along La Costa and enjoy the hills and rolling terrain but am concerned
          with traffic, high speeds by vehicles and lack of respect towards cyclists (i.e., driving in
          the bike lanes, turning right quickly cutting off bikes, honking and yelling of obscenities,
          etc). I give a wide berth to vehicles and observe traffic laws by not running red lights,
          riding no greater than two-wide, and stopping at stop signs, as this leads to ill-will
          towards other cyclists that motorists will see after me.
307.      Going East on La Costa is very unsafe for cyclist
308.      WE NEED BIKE LANES!!!!
309.      Many elderly people drive this area. Also, people speed and use cell phones while
          driving. Special attention needs to be paid to the intersection near the freeway
          entrances so bicyclists can merge & pass with safety. Place red plastic cones, painted
          lines need improving, and add a few blinking lights. Add yield to bicyclists too.
310.      As a cyclist I'm very concerned for my safety and others.
311.      Enlarged bike lane required
312.      Thank you so much for allowing us to voice our opinions.
313.      Bike lanes we needed it ASAP
314.      I came to visit friends who live on La Costa Ave. My Gosh,,, I thought I was back in
          Texas at the Texas Speedway.. A very dangerous street with no apparent regard from
          other drivers for safety for themselves or others, I mean walkers, Bikers, or just getting
          out of drive ways onto this SPEEDWAY. Normally I would not take the time to fill out any
          surveys,, but when my friends ask for my input as an out of towner,,,, You Bet, here it is.
          Also NO BIKE LANES OR WALKER LANES,,, WHO DESIGNED THIS STREET???
          YIKES
          Speed bumps are aggravating as all heck,,, but they do slow people down ,, even in
          Calf. Especially on this racetrack...
315.      A continuous dedicated bicycle lane is needed. Currently on street parking encroaches
          and in sections eliminates safe bicycle passage.
316.      This is very dangerous road for east and westbound cycles as well as pedestrians on
          south side or trying to cross. Visibility over hills is poor and autos go very fast through
          this section.
317.      Bicycle lanes are too dangerous, I will not use them. If bicycles could be routed to
          Levante or other parallel street, then the existing bike lanes could be used for traffic
          instead
318.      The segment from Rancho Santa Fe Rd west to Romeria with 3 lanes seems to work
          well. It provides bike lanes in both directions, safe parking in front of housing and
          doesn't constrict traffic flow. Bike lanes are critically important. During the construction
          of the retaining wall in the 2300 block, the reduction to 3 lanes did not seem to interrupt
          the traffic flow. Raised landscape medians would be beautiful, but I would start with the
          3 lanes leaving the turn lane and see if that would work before spending the money on
          the medians and increasing the maintenance.
319.      I feel closing down lanes on La Costa is only a short term fix and will simply move traffic
          to other streets such as Levante which is currently 25.



8/17/11                                                                                Page 29
                                                                     La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


320.      I live off of La Costa Ave. Yes the traffic has increased, but blame the City for allowing
          more homes to be built off of Rancho Santa Fe Ave. thereby increasing traffic.
321.      ANY construction on La Costa will impact Levante. As our property overlooks La Costa,
          we are very concerned that options such as widening La Costa will impact our property
          values and resale potential. I understand that those whose driveways enter directly on
          La Costa have significant problems, but those homes are relatively few. Perhaps speed
          controls might be a better option.
322.      My greatest concern is bicyclists using La Costa eastbound from El Camino Real where
          there are no bike lanes and the road is very curvy. it is a suicide wish certain days/times
          of the week.
323.      Would like to see one lane each direction, slower speeds, easier entry/exit from/to side
          streets, wide/safe bike lanes, and safe sidewalks/pedestrian accommodations; maybe
          even traffic circles. These changes may push through traffic to Calle Barcelona; so plan
          should take into consideration that roadway as well. Would like to see above changes to
          both La Costa and Calle Barcelona. There's no need for these 4-lane, high-speed
          expressways through our neighborhoods.
324.      Need to lower speed limits, make the road have two lanes on both sides all the way
          between El Camino real and Rancho Santa Fe.
325.      Need to provide sidewalks on BOTH sides of the street!!
326.      Just once I would like to see the City of Carlsbad do something (anything!) to speed up,
          rather than slow down, traffic. There is absolutely no imagination within the city when it
          comes to solutions to move traffic. Since I moved to Carlsbad in 1992 I have seen one
          major street after another (Palomar Airport Road, La Costa Ave, Carlsbad Blvd,
          Carlsbad Village Drive, El Camino Real, Rancho Santa Fe Road, etc.) ruined by traffic
          signals and stop signs. The city cares nothing about the costs associated with slowing
          down the primary flow of traffic, including the cost of my time, the additional pollution,
          the wear and tear on my vehicle, and especially the wasted gasoline. Just once I'd like
          to see some creativity: one way streets, reversible lanes, round-a-bouts, left-turns yield
          on green, left turns banned during certain hours of the day, etc. Instead, all we get are
          'solutions' that serve no purpose other than to enable left-hand turns. Enough!
327.      There is insufficient road going North/South. Encinitas fixed a problem by erecting 7
          stop signs on RSF road. This throws more traffic on La Costa Blvd. We need more
          police supervision as there are a lot of wild and speeding drivers
328.      I think the city should look at a landscaped sidewalk buffer similar to Leucadia Blvd. It
          has been shown that a buffer makes the streets safer and more pleasant for pedestrian
          use, and narrow streets cause drivers to slow down and be more careful. This in
          addition to replacing traffic signals with roundabouts would improve the flow of traffic
          while keeping speeds lower, just as with the Leucadia streetscape project.
          I should mention that this situation is really the result of poor planning. Wide, long,
          winding roads flanked by low density residential and distant commercial centers is an
          inefficient use of land (in the form of roads and parking), building materials and utilities,
          and it encourages high speeds and wasting fuel. The city should be more focused on
          building livable communities with smaller lots, mixed-use, greenways, building up
          instead of out, where walking, biking and public transit are encouraged and competitive
          with the private vehicle industry that drives (pun intended) current planning policies.
          These measures will help save money, reduce gas and water use, pollution levels,
          waistlines and traffic, thus making the city much more attractive as well as prepared for
          economic and environmental conditions.
329.      I do not want to see the lanes reduced on La Costa Avenue. This would be a disaster
          when the new shopping center goes in at Rancho Santa Fe Road, and it would not help
          residents who need to turn from their driveways onto the street. It would, in fact, make


8/17/11                                                                                 Page 30
                                                                    La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


          that situation worse because one long line of traffic would lengthen the wait for traffic to
          clear so that a vehicle could enter the roadway from a driveway. I know that the city
          plans to install traffic signals at every intersection between Rancho Santa Fe and El
          Camino Real, and I emphatically do not want to see this happen. Please consider the
          use of landscaped roundabouts instead. These are efficient at slowing traffic and
          impede progress less than traffic signals do, plus they would help to beautify the
          roadway. Thank you.
330.      The speed of 45mph is TOO fast for a residential street! Lowering it to 35mph would be
          100 percent better!
331.      I drive La Costa at least twice daily and see no problem with it the way it is.
332.      Safety concerns on La Costa will be even greater than they are now after the huge
          commercial developments at La Costa and Rancho Santa Fe are completed.
333.      I checked "physical changes". I'm looking for a 4 lane road with 2 lanes each direction.
334.      One way to reduce traffic on La Costa is to connect and open Poinsetta Ln. I live in San
          Elijo/San Marcos and even I I have to travel I-5 North I will use La Costa because it is
          quicker to the 5 than Alga or Palomar Airport. In fact, I think MapQuest and the others
          show La Coast as a much quicker route to the freeway than the others.
335.      Turning onto La Costa Ave from Alga (from East going South) is very difficult due to the
          way the media rises up and the second lane turns.
336.      The on-street parking should be eliminated because the cars block visibility and can be
          a hazard when pulling in/out and especially to cyclists. A center median that prevents
          cars from crossing in front of on-coming traffic to enter/exit driveways would improve
          safety and aesthetics. I'm concerned that reducing the number of lanes to a single lane
          each direction the length of La Costa Ave would increase congestion and shift traffic to
          other streets, therefore, I don't favor reducing the number of through lanes.
          Roundabouts might be preferable to stop signs or other control measures.
337.      Although this may get me, police officers "hide" in the same spots. Everyone knows
          where they sit, so they only slow down when approaching those spots.
338.      Works fine. Don't waste money making changes that aren't needed.
339.      No more traffic lights please!
340.      Save the money! there are much bigger concerns
341.      No Roundabouts
342.      Home driveway on La Costa Ave
343.      maintenance, holes, dips, cracks ,bad dips at drains
344.      new signs which flash speed are good
345.      Do Not go to a single lane!
346.      repair the pot holes on navarra
347.      Fine as is
348.      The main reason I am expressing my concern is the development of the proposed
          center at La Costa & Rancho Sante Fe. There are SERIOUS traffic issues NOW that will
          only be magnified with increased development of this area.
349.      La Costa is fine as is
350.      Opposed to median or any landscape to push traffic closer to driveways. I don not live
          on this street but use it as main east west access often and an very concerned about
          driveway to street interface.
351.      I am sure the many residents can supply viable and imaginative solutions
352.      The narrow two lanes between Cadencia and Rancho Santa Fe forces people to use
          Cadencia as a major street to connect to Rancho Santa Fe and La Costa Ave.
353.      STOP this action. You have listened to a vocal minority and failed to consult with other
          area residents. It is flat wrong to intentionally mess up traffic flow on one of the cities



8/17/11                                                                                Page 31
                                                                    La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


          few thoroughfares that works well. YOU MUST CONSULT LOCAL RESIDENTS
          BEFORE DOING ANYTHING THIS STUPID,
354.      This street needs to be widened to accommodate all the traffic coming off the I-5
355.      Leave as is!
356.      While these are not my concerns, I am sensitive to the concerns of people who live on
          La Costa Ave
357.      I have been living here 25 years and the noise just seems to be getting louder. At night
          you here speeding cars and motorcycles speeding.
358.      Roundabouts would only lead to more problems.
          are you crazy!!
359.      i would consider slowing traffic down with roundabouts- not take any lanes out. speed
          traps that pay for police time. lowering speed limit to 40 MPH
360.      Speed limits are way too high. as you cross Rancho Santa Fe heading east on La Costa
          Ave, the speed limit is 45. you approach apartments and the lane narrows to 1 lane,
          with on street parking. this is much to fast. also it's almost impossible to turn right onto
          La Costa Ave. from Levante to then go left on Rancho Sante Fe in the mornings and
          afternoons. the traffic is a nightmare on this road
361.      Speeds are too high for residential area. roundabouts would be a good idea. more
          space needed for walking/jogging/biking 25 MPH speed limit. like Willowsprins in
          Encinitas
362.      Raised medians are some times more a hazard. when marbella was being done the 25
          mph speed was in effect. I had to ride my brakes to maintain a 25 mph speed. I have
          traveled the corridor for 10 yrs at various times and have never seen a serious accident
          of any kind. not even a minor one.
363.      One Lane each direction would slow traffic down. each one way lane should be wider
          than the current lane is. allow for more on street parking for residents & keep wide
          entrance/ exit area clear for visibility or merging into traffic lane.
364.      2 main problems: right of way with Nueva Castilla and Left turn(lights) onto rancho
          Santa Fe Rd insufficient for traffic
365.      The Construction that sometime close one lane with the cone suddenly merge two lanes
          can be dangerous and almost cause accident
366.      Ticketing too-fast drivers would slow people down. have police out-visible especially at
          peak traffic times don't narrow the road!
367.      As president of La Costa da marbella HOA- I have concerns about the future of La
          Costa Ave. I believe that the road should be one lane either way with center medians
          and turn and safety lane. In addition we need sidewalks on both sides of the road along
          with bicycles lane. finally, roundabouts as the best way to control cross traffic on
          crossroads.
368.      We appreciate this questionnaire
369.      Since the addition of the traffic light at Albertsons center more and more people are
          using Levante street as the connecting route and always exceeding the speed limit.
          please realize the impact that the changes will have on Levante.
370.      1. reduce speed to 25 MPH 2. Make it "Two Lane" road not four. 3. change the
          designation to residential 4. provide parking & bike lane & landscaping on the residential
          site. 5. plant large trees in the middle of the road 6. provide street signals & roundabouts
          7.roundabouts 1st then street signals 8. enforce the law from 6am-8am & 3pm-9pm 9.
          monitor midnight traffic
371.      another concern I have is the use of Cadenica St. as a cut thru from La Costa to
          Romeria. Our street has become far too busy & drivers are driving very fast on the
          street. Heaviest use is by La Costa Heights school parents around 8am & again around
          2:30pm. Can we get speed humps? or close Cadencia off from La Costa Ave?


8/17/11                                                                                Page 32
                                                                    La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


372.      Downtown workers (who pay taxes) need access to home in San Marcos. No changes
          necessary
373.      I believe the concerns can be solved with decreased speed limits and additional lighting
          and signs. To go into the dark ages and revert back to a 2 lane highway makes no
          sense. That option will create bottlenecked traffic and toxic fumes as a result of standing
          traffic. From a tax payer's perspective; I am curious as to why this wasn't addressed
          before unnecessary construction, and more condos were added to La Costa Ave.? The
          last thing this community needs is to spend more money on unnecessary and inefficient
          changes. I appreciate the opportunity to give feedback; please consider simple options,
          when properly implemented they will be more effective.
374.      Currently La Costa Avenue is similar to a wide open racetrack when compared to a
          neighboring street like Aviara Parkway that has landscaping, medians, and signage.
          And when you consider that La Costa Avenue has numerous homes with driveways
          right on the street (and Aviara Parkway doesn't) it seems as if the wrong street was
          given all the attention.
375.      I strongly feel the plan of round-a-bouts and reducing the traffic lanes to one (each way)
          would improve the road noise and safety for each home directly on La Costa. Will for
          sure help home values once traffic is reduced and brought to an appropriate housing
          community level.
376.      I have lived on La Costa Ave for 5 years. It have seen the traffic flow, and speed
          increase. Safety for pedestrians and pulling out of my driveway has become
          decreasingly unsafe.
377.      I think a median strategy should be explored prior to reducing capacity by removing
          lanes.
378.      Very dangerous street sometimes. Once experienced near-accident when encountering
          a driver making a U turn. (Could not be seen due to hill and curvature of road.) Speeds
          too great to allow for safe entering and exiting residential driveways. Sometimes difficult
          to access side streets. Very distracting due to work on road, too many signs, general
          activity around parked cars. Not safe to cross.
          Having said that--it is a beautiful well-maintained street with nice views. Thank you.
379.      Our major concern is that the City of Carlsbad does attempt to NOT widen La Costa Ave
          or to facilitate the increase of traffic in any way.
380.      Need sidewalks on both sides of street from El Camino to Rancho Santa Fe road.
          Medians similar to those on Aviara Parkway would be good.
381.      Wider sidewalks and bike lanes would go a long way to slowing traffic in addition to
          reducing L.C.Ave to two lanes along the entire length. Making L.C. Ave. walkable is my
          goal.
382.      The current building project and any future building projects has made La Costa Ave a
          hazard to be on and since the past retrofitting of foundations that were sliding, why
          would the city allow another potential erosion project to move forward.
383.      We have been long time residents of La Costa and use La Costa Ave every day for
          direct freeway access. That's what it was developed for and is very necessary. Please,
          no more stop lights or slowing down of traffic. If you want to improve safety: 1) take the
          Public Parking off of the street and 2) stop the building of properties with additional
          driveways with direct access to the road. Residents who live along La Costa Ave
          purchased their existing properties knowing the traffic situation. Obviously it was a
          desirable choice to buy their residences and choose to live along La Costa Ave. Why
          would Carlsbad continue to approve permits for more building on La Costa Ave that only
          adds to the problem? The new town homes with direct access to La Costa Ave should
          have never been approved. Please, no more construction.
          Thank you for the opportunity to voice concerns.


8/17/11                                                                               Page 33
                                                                    La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


384.      All cross streets have traffic signals. You can't put a Stop sign or Traffic signal where no
          intersection occurs. Most of La Costa Ave already has sidewalks. Widening the street
          would most likely involve eminent domain issues (you will have a nasty fight there).
          More traffic from the east needs to be routed to Aviara. Is it obvious that poor
          community planning has allowed this mini-mess to have taken place, instead of routing
          traffic on Santa Fe / Leucadia Blvd? Close La Costa Ave off to all but "Local Traffic"?
385.      I live on Dehesa Court. It is dangerous turning left from Dehesa onto La Costa because
          the road downhill from Rancho Santa Fe is a blind curve. Traffic going up the hill on La
          Costa to Rancho Santa Fe really backs up in the afternoon rush hour. Riding a bike on
          La Costa going east from El Camino Real is not safe. There are no bike lanes, the lane
          is narrow and there are blind curves. I am a cyclist and I won't ride there (I detour up
          Levante), but some people do and I've had close calls. There should either be a bike
          lane added or maybe signs just prohibiting bikes going east on that section of La Costa.
386.      speed limit reduced. need flashing ped lights at areas where condos/townhomes are so
          they can get out of the complex. do like the 101 and put up ped crossing signs and lines
387.      This is residential street and I've watched your speed signs say slow down on almost
          every car. Not only that but between 6am to 8am and 5pm to 8pm there is a parade of
          cars using LCA as a cut trough from 5 to RSF. They should be using Leucadia/RSF or
          Melrose/Alga to get through but they use LCA because they can speed up and down
          that road. I have talked to many who do that. Changing the road to have roundabouts,
          one lane and other traffic calming methods will return the road to La Costa residents
          and those who want to cut trough without speeding.
388.      Speed is a major concern, vehicle turning off of La Costa Ave onto Gibraltor or Romerea
          at high rates of speed. Those two side streets are very dangerous. Could recommend,
          police set up some type of sting to catch speeding and wreckless vehicles. Best time is
          6-7 am and 5-6pm. Drivers easily reach excessive speeds on these streets. I've only
          see police patrol these streets once or twice in 2 years. I live off of Jerez Court. Please
          send police out to ticket the speeders on these streets. After a few days of doing this, I
          guarantee you'll have a substantial amount of tickets written which will bring in some
          form of new revenue to the city. Again, please stop the speeders on these streets.
389.      Need a signal at Esfera
390.      Single lanes in each direction (as it was several years ago) works well east of Cadencia
          and would slow traffic west of Cadencia. This would also allow for bike lanes in both
          directions.
391.      I have lived on this street for 9 years and it has gotten worse every year. Cars fly down
          the road and I am scared a child or animal will get hit. Please do everything you can to
          slow cars down, increase safety, reduce the amount of traffic, and especially, reduce the
          amount of noise.
392.      Stop signs would add auto emissions.
          Roundabouts are ridiculous on a major artery.
          Additional signals are a last resort and would contribute to traffic backups; especially at
          Rancho Santa Fe Eastbound.
393.      Existing markings, speed limits etc. are perfectly fine as long as they are obeyed and
          enforced. The speed gauge sign is very helpful when driving.
394.      I drive W on LC every morning btwn 7 and 730am and E on LC every evening around
          5pm. I do not see any traffic problems and speed has been under control since CPD
          began regular enforcement.
395.      For physical changes it would be nice to have bicycle lanes on both side of the rode
396.      Reduce speed limit. Make it residential road. Narrow the road way to two lane road.
          Provide bike lane and parking along the street. Install tall trees and very heavy bushy
          tress in the middle or the road. Provide roundabouts with fully landscape with bushy and


8/17/11                                                                                Page 34
                                                                 La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


          fat tress in them. Provide some statues monuments and other street calming materials
          in the medians
397.      Please add No Parking zones where parking plus road curvature make for zero visibility
          of on-coming vehicles and entering the road safely a crap shoot.
398.      More of the digital speed indicators and speed cameras to increase revenue and slow
          traffic.
399.      Change speed limit to 35 MPH east of Fairway Ln to El Camino Real. Eliminate parking
          in front of condominiums & Fairway Ln development.
400.      There needs to be something to slow down traffic especially before the Chabad. Too
          many cars veering off-road or in to other cars in this area.




8/17/11                                                                           Page 35
                                                                     La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


                                            Appendix 2

                           Summary of Comments on Proposed Plan
                                        June 2011

How well do you feel the proposed plan meets the study objective for La Costa Avenue?
Excellent! The plan will slow traffic, giving pedestrians a fighting chance to get across the street
while beautifying the neighborhood - raising property values (and taxes.) While roundabouts will
slow traffic, it will not stop it unnecessarily like traffic signals. In addition, screeching stops and
peeling out from signals will stop.

The only real complaints heard in the meetings were either from those who think 45 MPH is too
slow for the street (get over it!) or overflow would go to Levante. Neither are true. Overflow will
be minimal - at morning and evening rush hours only and will likely go to Calle Barcelona, Alga,
Leucadia Blvd and even Palomar Airport Road for those who use La Costa Avenue to get to I-5.
All of the alternatives are much better suited for more and faster traffic.

About half or a little more. The new model is more a practice of application of technical
methodology to self-impress those who are designing than it is an attempt to actually solve the
exactness of the problems with a good long term viable solution that will be lasting. It was
evident during the group sessions, as is so often the case with the city of Carlsbad, that the
design group was facilitating an attempt at selling buy-in to their pre-conceived solution more so
than actually seeking input from the concerned citizenry who took their time to voice their
concerns and ideas.

I am very encouraged by this plan. It incorporates all the safety items necessary to make La
Costa Ave safer, return it to a residential street while maintaining a smooth flow of traffic for
those who use it as a commuter road. It would be wonderful if the traffic speed laws took into
account the residential nature of La Costa Ave. instead of just the traffic flow speeds. Most of
the safety issues could be resolved just by lowering the speed limit to 35 mph. This would add
less than one minute to the trip.

Our primary concern, safety on La Costa Avenue, has been met; by slowing the traffic pattern.
Also, visually it will be a much more pleasing to the eye and will only present our avenue as
more of a "community" and will give it more of a neighborhood feel. We think it will add to our
property values as well.

Excellent Plan.

Meets study objectives very well.

Very well planned draft.

Perfect ­ love it ­ make it a neighborhood and will increase hove values for all.

Very well thought out and planned for those living/commuting on LCA while focusing on safety
and speed. No more wasting 3 mins. at each light!

Awesome




8/17/11                                                                                 Page 36
                                                                   La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


Perfectly

Very well done. The sooner the better!

Very well!

I think it is very good job you have done

Best that can be done in reasonable budget. Very good.

I am very pleased with the proposed plan. I think that it meets all of the objectives that we have
discussed at all of the meetings.


What do you like most about the plan? Why?
One lane in each direction will slow traffic and widen shared median space or allow for serentine
medians for left-turns, particularly at Gibraltar and Calle Madero where opposing traffic traveling
at 45 MPH or above now competes for the same ~100 ft. of turn lane. When one driver has to
give way to the other, he too often has to swerve into the adjacent lane, side swiping another
vehicle. That won't happen under the new plan.

Bulb-outs will protect parked cars. Roundabouts will keep traffic moving, but slower - as
intended. Through time, however, should be no slower overall.

Lastly, trees and shrubs in the medians will add beauty and add value to the neighborhood,
maintaining the upscale essence of the community - in constrast to adding more and more
asphalt and traffic signals that deteriorate home values.

That someone is moving forward and attempting to make some improvement to a situation
which has appear as a growing problem which seemingly will continue to grow.

Bike lanes, sidewalks that are complete and wide enough to navigate with a stroller, wheelchair.
or two people walking abreast are a good start. A single lane in both directions will accomodate
traffic and allow space for the bike lanes and sidewalk improvements. The round abouts work
well for me, but I think a lot of people will think they will slow them down too much ( In the
absence of speed limit reductions, this appears to be a necessary item to calm the traffic and
yet keep it moving). The raised center medians will improve the look of the street and provide
additional safety.

It meets the "calming" effect we were all looking for.

Lane reduction

1) Appears that it will allow flow so traffic won't be pushed to Levante (I like roundabouts!) 2)
Makes the street more attractive (I like partial medians and landscaping)

Meets all conditions: sight distance, parking, bikes, speed, emissions, beautification, cost. Add
lighting ­ too dark.

Roundabouts ­ makes it residential neighborly ­ slows traffic and volume ­ perfect



8/17/11                                                                              Page 37
                                                                   La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


Roundabouts; focus on safety

Roundabouts, safe traffic

It is safe and it makes sense

Roundabouts & curb extensions

Lane reductions east & west

Yes it serves the good of the city

1) Will slow speeds ­ giving everybody safety 2) Give La Costa Ave some good look & class vs.
weeds & dirt 3) Maybe cause some thru traffic do divert to other major roads

The most important part of the plan is slowing traffic to prevent continuing accidents and
recognizing the La Costa Avenue is a residential street.


What do you like least about the plan? Why?
Nothing, except possibly the cost. But as noted above, property values, and therefore the tax
base, should be increased helping repay the investment over time.

The use of roundabouts. They are death traps. I have taken the time to park my car and
observe the mired of things that happen on Leucadia Boulevard' various roundabouts, which is
one of the very few places in the county where stupidity has found it necessary to complicate
matters with an inept solution. Look at the curbs, they are black from tire marks because the
roundabout are not within the effect design proportion and dimension of how a roundabout is
supposed to facilitate traffic control. The circles are way to small, which puts the design in favor
of any victim's lawsuit. Because the Leucadia roundabouts are too small they don't effectively
cause the driver to slow the vehicle, but rather to make attempts to steer and veer it through the
roundabout at the approaching speed. On several occasions, I watch car tires hit the curb with
such force that the control of the vehicle was temporally lost by the drive and different reactions
resulted. One was to panic and brake the car to a stop causing the following vehicles to react
and veer up other curbs or into oncoming traffic to avoid a rear end collision. Another was to
whip steer the car through the rodeo wildness cause by hitting the curb with the hope of not
hitting another car. It is my understanding that roundabout were invented in and are primarily
used in England, Australia, etc. where it has to be noted that the driver sits on the other side of
the car, which provides a very different perspective to the roundabout when it is approached.
The whole mindset is different and any reactionary result is also different from the American
driving position. The installation of roundabouts will eventually result in deaths. Those who are
purporting this stupidity will be then guilty of murder. If I am in the area, I will at every
opportunity encourage the victim's family to sue the city and all involved with roundabout
installation and use the multiple-million dollar settlement of my aunt's roundabout death as
establish grounds for the worthlessness of roundabouts as a solution to traffic problems

The cost is an issue, but hopefully help can be obtained from adjoining cities whose residents
use La Costa Ave for thier commute.

None found



8/17/11                                                                              Page 38
                                                                    La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


Did not include restricting size of vehicles able to park on the street. Should have size limits; i.e.,
nor more than 7 feet high and one car length long. Should strictly prohibit RVs on the street.
They should be on the owner's property. LCA is too hazardous and RVs make a mockery of the
safety measures being implemented. Carlsbad is no longer the 70's beach town that it was.
Carlsbad is now a sophisticated city and RVs should have restrictions, not only on LCA but
citywide.

Perhaps some landscaping at both ends (ECR & RSF) so it looks "complete."

Not enough roundabouts ­ but they are expensive so I understand

Fear of the traffic back up during AM/PM hours.

Too little street parking, taking too long. Start immediately!

Nothing

Need additional roundabouts at Cadenica and Viejo Castilla.

Parking in front of residential driveways.

Not to reduce the speed limit to 25 mph

Time to implement it

I am a little uncertain about the roundabouts. I strongly believe that traffic needs to be slowed
so roundabouts may be the best answer.

Expect that the "plan" will lead to substantial increase in traffic on Levante Street ­ why ­
because we have many children (and an elementary school) on Levante St ­ we live on Levante
St. >30 yrs.

How could the plan be improved to meet the study objective more effectively?
We think every objective was addressed and the response to each was very positive and
resulted in an appealing, esthetic plan.

Take a deep breath and just implement something with paint stripes before huge amounts of
money are expended on something that the citizens of Carlsbad will be forced to live with an
tolerate, because there is never enough money to fix bad design in government, never, unless
there is death involved.

When the plan is implemented, speeds will be reduced and hopefully the speed limit can then
be lawfully reduced and enforced.

We like the proposed plan as it is.

As stated above PLUS:
There should be a raised median at the area between the Marbella condos on the south side
and Alta Verde, Alteeza, Tres Verde condos on the north side. This is a high density area and
left hand turns should be controlled by a raised median.



8/17/11                                                                                Page 39
                                                                   La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


The Marbella condo is right across the street from two single family home driveways, as well as
the Tres Verde condos.

No suggestions

No need to improve ­ I love it

Nothing, I think it's great

Nothing

Wider parkways, take away from the medians. Start east, Romeria to Cadencia, consider
children to and from La Costa Heights Elem. from homes north of La Costa Ave.

No parking in front of driveways; or, at least, limit size of vehicles ie. no RVs and no vehicles
above 7 feet high or, longer than one car

Do all you have proposed & reduce speed limit and change it to residential designation.

Continue to stress: - "changes are not just for those who live on La Costa but for tho9se who
travel it ­ it takes two cars to make an accident" ­ speeders and those who leave driveways

I think that the current proposed plan will meet all objectives that I had in mind. I can think of no
further improvements at this time.

Do away with "on-street" parking on La Costa Ave ­ reduce width of "turn lane" continue to have
2 lanes of traffic. Traffic representative said they would study impact on Levante St. at 6/23
meeting.

How well do you feel the La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan process addressed the
community's preferences and concerns?
Beautifully - literally. La Costa Avenue will have slower traffic, fewer accidents, be a safe place
for pedestrians and bicyclists. It will cut down on noise and add character and beauty to the
community. We cannot wait!

It really doesn't. It is a crafty and cleaver manipulation of experimentation that has been very
well perpetuated upon the citizenry in a very slick manner to create buy-in with delayed timing,
mock meetings and much political massage. The city has made it clear without verbiage that the
goal is to do what they want to satisfy the court requirements at any and all costs first and
foremost. This is the goal and the attempts to make the citizenry feel that they have been
participatory and that they have been listened to is merely frosting on an otherwise nearly
impalatable cake.

I applaud the efforts to correct the long needed safety on La Costaq Ave.
I FEEL THAT THE INTERIM PLAN SHOULD INCLUDE AN EAST BOUND BIKE LANE,
ESPECIALLY BETWEEN FAIRWAY AND VIEJO CASTILLA. IT IS THE MOST NARROW
PORTION OF THE ROAD, WITH THE SLOWIST BIKE SPEEDS.

Excellent job and we want to thank all those involved in the project. We have lived on the
avenue for over 25 years and plan on staying. With the traffic calming modalities in place, and
medians with landscaping, not only will this be a safer place to life, but also for people using our


8/17/11                                                                               Page 40
                                                                   La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


road to get from El Camino to Rancho Santa Fe Rd. And again, it will give our area a sense of
being a residential neighborhood, which is what it has always been. And all in all it will certainly
add to our property values.

As I said before, the Plan is excellent and visionary. Tweaking it a bit to include the
aforementioned median by Marbella and the other condos, as well as the vehicle size
restrictions, would make it perfect.

ALL OF THE PEOPLE, DOUG, SKIP, PAT are amazing! This was an extreme challenge but
they navigated the waters beautifully.

Thought it was a excellent process, conducted very well. City/consultants clearly listened to
community input.

Excellent process ­ I apologize for my neighbors' comments!! Pat, Doug, Skip great job

Perfect ­ you've won my heart! Thank you for a program well run

For the crowd ->50/50 but I agree

95% positive

This plan couldn't be more effective. It addresses safety ant that's what's most important!

Well done.

Excellent ­ kudos to everyone involved. Now, Council should do their job and get it done!

The staff has done very good job so far

Good meetings ­ professionally done ­ might need some special time with Levante people
showing why non-local people will not logically use it as by-pass ­ most increase will be from
those who live there; not using La Costa & cut up to where they live

Not everyone will be pleased by any plan as is evident from the public hearings. The third
meeting however showed a great response from citizens, nearly all but a few stating that they
were happy with the proposed plan. Good and organized efforts!

Not everyones!




8/17/11                                                                               Page 41
                                                         La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan


                                     Appendix 3

                               Technical Memorandum

    La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan ­ Level of Service Analysis Planning and Cost
                                     Estimate

                                     August 2011




8/17/11                                                                   Page 42
TECHNICAL MEMORANDUM
To:            Doug Bilse, City of Carlsbad
From:          Arnold Torma, KOA Corporation
KOA No.:       JB14055
Date:          August 16, 2011

Re:      La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan ­ Level of Service Analysis Planning and Cost
         Estimate


INTRODUCTION

Background
This technical memorandum is intended to provide the analytic information that, in combination
with the La Costa Avenue Road Diet Arterial Traffic Calming Project, is the outcome of the La
Costa Avenue Improvement Plan. A separate report describing the process and outcome has
been prepared by Pat Noyes & Associates, dated July 2011. Over time, traffic volumes on La
Costa Avenue are expected to increase beyond the current level. The weekday, daily traffic
volumes on La Costa Avenue vary between 15,000 and 17,000 vehicles, and is expected to
increase as high as 20,000 in the future according to SANDAG. Driveways open directly onto
the road, which has a 45-mile-per-hour speed limit, making it challenging to enter and exit
residences during busy traffic times. Therefore, the City of Carlsbad has commissioned KOA
Corporation to prepare the La Costa Avenue Improvement Plan to develop a cost effective,
community-preferred plan to address traffic speeds and safety on La Costa Avenue in a way
that respects the residential character and arterial function of the roadway.

Purpose
In order to understand how well the concept plan would function, this documents the
intersection and segmental analysis for the La Costa Avenue Improvement Project. The results
in this memorandum are presented for the following scenarios:

      1. Existing Conditions Without & With Project
      2. Future Conditions Without & With Project

Figures in Attachment A illustrate the existing and proposed geometries for the following four
intersections:

         1.   La Costa Avenue at Nueva Castilla Way
         2.   La Costa Avenue at Viejo Castillo Way
         3.   La Costa Avenue at Romeria Street
         4.   La Costa Avenue at Cadencia Street

These intersections were chosen specifically for future implementation of either signal control or
proposed roundabouts. The turning movement counts for each intersection can be found in
Attachment B.

KOA Corporation                                                                     August 16, 2011
Roadway peak hour segmental LOS analysis was conducted for the following three locations on
La Costa Avenue:

       1. West of Nueva Castilla Way
       2. West of Calle Madero
       3. West of Cadencia Street

These segmental intersections were chosen specifically because they are located in between
the four intersections previously being analyzed.

CONCEPT

Conceptual Striping Plan
A conceptual striping plan intended to respond to concerns about speeds on La Costa Avenue
has been prepared. Attachment C shows the proposed striping concept for the La Costa
Avenue Improvement Plan. It makes utmost use of the existing median position, reduces the
through lanes to one lane in each direction adjacent to residential units, introduces a Class II
bikeway and it maintains on-street parking along portions of the roadway.

METHODS

Intersection Levels of Service Analysis
The intersections along the length of the project have been analyzed to determine what the
existing and future levels of service are with the Intersection Capacity Utilization (ICU) for
existing and future conditions without project. A satisfactory operating intersection is a LOS D
or greater during peak hours. The analysis printouts are included in Attachment D.

Roundabout Analysis
SIDRA, a roundabout software that offers a roundabout capacity model based on US research
on roundabouts, was used for this analysis. For the with project scenario the two locations that
were analyzed as one-lane roundabouts as part of the La Costa Ave Improvement Plan are
listed below. Some additional locations are addressed later in this memo

           1. La Costa Avenue and Nueva Castilla Way
           2. La Costa Avenue and Romeria Street.

A satisfactory operating roundabout is a LOS D or greater. The analysis printouts are included
in Attachment D.

Segmental Analysis
With the use of midblock segmental LOS analysis, the existing and future levels of service for
the roadway segments along the length of the project have been determined. This method
takes an hourly directional/traffic volume divided by a pre-determined capacity value to produce
a volume/capacity ratio. The City of Carlsbad uses a value of 1,800 vehicles per hour per lane
for roadway capacity. A satisfactory operating segment is a LOS D or greater. The analysis
printouts are included in Attachment D.



KOA Corporation                             2                                       August 16, 2011
EXISITING CONDITIONS
La Costa Avenue is shown within the City of Carlsbad's Circulation Element as a secondary
arterial roadway, which is fed by other local roads leading to regional connections. Therefore, it
is currently 2 lanes westbound from Levante Street to Romeria Street and 2 lanes eastbound
from Gibraltar Street to Romeria Street. From Gibraltar Street to Levante Street it is three lanes,
with two lanes in the westbound direction and one lane in the eastbound direction. Figures in
Attachment B show the existing geometry of La Costa Avenue.

The results of the effect of the proposed improvement plan with the current roadway
configuration scenario for both segments and intersections for existing conditions are shown in
Tables 1 through 3.

                                         Table 1
                    Existing Roadway Segment Conditions Without Project
                                           Eastbound                        Westbound
Existing geometry      Lane                Hourly                           Hourly
                     Capacity    Lanes     Volume V/C       LOS    Lanes    Volume V/C        LOS
West of Nueva Castilla Way
  AM Peak Hour         1800         2        502     0.14    A        2        983     0.27     A
  PM Peak Hour         1800         2       1111     0.31    A        2        624     0.17     A
West of Calle Madero
  AM Peak Hour         1800         2        525     0.15    A        2        838     0.23     A
  PM Peak Hour         1800         2        935     0.26    A        2        581     0.16     A
West of Cadencia Street
  AM Peak Hour         1800         2        445     0.12    A        2        667     0.19     A
  PM Peak Hour         1800         2        629     0.17    A        2        458     0.13     A

                                         Table 2
                     Existing Roadway Segment Conditions With Project
                                           Eastbound                        Westbound
Existing geometry      Lane                Hourly                           Hourly
                     Capacity    Lanes     Volume V/C       LOS    Lanes    Volume V/C        LOS
West of Nueva Castilla Way
  AM Peak Hour         1800         1        502     0.28    A        1        983     0.55     A
  PM Peak Hour         1800         1       1111     0.62    B        1        624     0.35     A
West of Calle Madero
  AM Peak Hour         1800         1        525     0.29    A        1        838     0.47     A
  PM Peak Hour         1800         1        935     0.52    B        1        581     0.32     A
West of Cadencia Street
  AM Peak Hour         1800         1        445     0.25    A        1        667     0.37     A
  PM Peak Hour         1800         1        629     0.35    B        1        458     0.25     A


As can be seen in the above tables, there will only be a shift from a LOS A to LOS B with the
implementation of the project during the PM peak hour heading eastbound; therefore, all three
segmental intersections will continue to operate at a satisfactory level.




KOA Corporation                              3                                       August 16, 2011
                                             Table 3
                                Existing Intersection Conditions
                                                      Existing                       Existing
                                                  Without Project                   With Project
#   Intersection
                                           Intersection                       Intersectio
                                                           ICU    LOS                       ICU LOS
                                             Control                           n Control
    AM Peak Hour
        La Costa Ave and Nueva Castilla    Side Street
1                                                           .36       A       Roundabout     .66    B
                                     Way      Stop
2    La Costa Ave and Viejo Castilla Way     Signal         .36       A         Signal       .57    B
3          La Costa Ave and Romeria St       Signal         .35       A       Roundabout     .35    A
4         La Costa Ave and Cadencia St       Signal         .39       A         Signal       .42    A
    PM Peak Hour
        La Costa Ave and Nueva Castilla    Side Street
1                                                           .33       A       Roundabout     .58    A
                                     Way      Stop
2    La Costa Ave and Viejo Castilla Way     Signal         .32       A         Signal       .51    A
3          La Costa Ave and Romeria St       Signal         .53       A       Roundabout     .46    A
4         La Costa Ave and Cadencia St       Signal         .50       A         Signal       .50    A

As can be seen from the above table, there will only be a shift from a LOS A to LOS B with the
implementation of the project during the AM peak hour at Nueva Castilla Way and Viejo Castilla
Way; therefore, all four intersections will continue to operate at a satisfactory level.

FUTURE CONDITIONS

2030 Year Analysis
The results of the proposed improvement plan with the without project scenario for both
segments and intersections for future conditions are shown in Table 4 through 6.

                                       Table 4
                    Future Roadway Segment Conditions Without Project
                                           Eastbound                           Westbound
Existing geometry      Lane                Hourly                              Hourly
                     Capacity     Lanes    Volume V/C         LOS     Lanes    Volume V/C          LOS
West of Nueva Castilla Way
  AM Peak Hour         1800         2        602     0.17         A       2     1180       0.33    A
  PM Peak Hour         1800         2       1333     0.37         A       2      749       0.21    A
West of Calle Madero
  AM Peak Hour         1800         2        630     0.18         A       2     1006       0.28    A
  PM Peak Hour         1800         2       1122     0.31         A       2      697       0.19    A
West of Cadencia Street
  AM Peak Hour         1800         2        534     0.15         A       2      800       0.22    A
  PM Peak Hour         1800         2        755     0.21         A       2      550       0.15    A




KOA Corporation                              4                                         August 16, 2011
                                         Table 5
                       Future Roadway Segment Conditions With Project
                                            Eastbound                        Westbound
Existing geometry      Lane                 Hourly                           Hourly
                     Capacity     Lanes     Volume V/C        LOS   Lanes    Volume V/C          LOS
West of Nueva Castilla Way
  AM Peak Hour         1800          1        602     0.33     A        1     1180       0.66    A
  PM Peak Hour         1800          1       1333     0.74     B        1     749        0.42    A
West of Calle Madero
  AM Peak Hour         1800          1        630     0.35     A        1     1006       0.56    A
  PM Peak Hour         1800          1       1122     0.62     B        1     697        0.39    A
West of Cadencia Street
  AM Peak Hour         1800          1        534     0.30     A        1      800       0.44    A
  PM Peak Hour         1800          1        755     0.42     B        1      550       0.31    A

As can be seen from the above tables, there will only be a shift from a LOS A to LOS B with the
implementation of the project during the PM peak hour heading eastbound; therefore, all three
segmental intersections will continue to operate at a satisfactory level.

                                              Table 6
                                  Future Intersection Conditions
                                                         2030                         2030
                                                   Without Project                With Project
#   Intersection
                                            Intersection                    Intersectio
                                                            ICU    LOS                    ICU LOS
                                               Control                       n Control
    AM Peak Hour
                                            Side Street
1    La Costa Ave and Nueva Castilla Way                     .41    A       Roundabout     .80       D
                                               Stop
2     La Costa Ave and Viejo Castilla Way     Signal         .42    A         Signal       .69       B
3           La Costa Ave and Romeria St       Signal         .38    A       Roundabout     .50       A
4          La Costa Ave and Cadencia St       Signal         .42    A         Signal       .46       A
    PM Peak Hour
                                            Side Street
1    La Costa Ave and Nueva Castilla Way                     .38    A       Roundabout     .70       C
                                               Stop
2     La Costa Ave and Viejo Castilla Way     Signal         .36    A         Signal       .60       B
3           La Costa Ave and Romeria St       Signal         .60    B       Roundabout     .56       A
4          La Costa Ave and Cadencia St       Signal         .55    B         Signal       .55       B

As can be seen from the above table, the greatest change in level of service will shift from an A
to a D at Nueva Castilla Way. This is due to the high volumes of the through movements on La
Costa Avenue. All four intersections will continue to operate at a satisfactory level.

Based on the segment and intersection analysis shown above the with project conditions
produce acceptable level of service.




KOA Corporation                               5                                      August 16, 2011
OTHER LOCATIONS

The City might eventually consider implementing roundabouts at three additional locations along
the same corridor. These locations are not included in the La Costa Improvement Plan and are
not in the cost estimates provided in the appendix. However, in case locations are considered
further, additional analyses of roundabouts at Cadencia, Gibraltar, and Calle Madero along La
Costa Avenue are discussed. The results are shown in tables 7 and 8 below.


                                              Table 7
                                 Existing Intersection Conditions
                                                     Existing                   Existing
                                                  Without Project              With Project
#   Intersection
                                          Intersection                  Intersectio
                                                          ICU     LOS                 ICU     LOS
                                             Control                     n Control
    AM Peak Hour
4       La Costa Ave and Cadencia St        Signal      .39       A     Roundabout     .28     A
                                          Side Street
5       La Costa Ave and Calle Madero                   .33       A     Roundabout     .59     A
                                             Stop
                                          Side Street
6         La Costa Ave and Gibraltor St                 .32       A     Roundabout     .50     A
                                             Stop
    PM Peak Hour
4       La Costa Ave and Cadencia St        Signal      .50       A     Roundabout     .44     A
                                          Side Street
5       La Costa Ave and Calle Madero                   .32       A     Roundabout     .50     A
                                             Stop
                                          Side Street
6         La Costa Ave and Gibraltor St                 .30       A     Roundabout     .47     A
                                             Stop

As can be seen from the above table, all intersections will continue to operate at a satisfactory
level as a roundabout.

                                              Table 7
                                  Future Intersection Conditions
                                                       2030                        2030
                                                 Without Project               With Project
#   Intersection
                                          Intersection                  Intersectio
                                                         ICU     LOS                  ICU     LOS
                                            Control                      n Control
    AM Peak Hour
4       La Costa Ave and Cadencia St        Signal      .43       A     Roundabout     .34     A
                                          Side Street
5       La Costa Ave and Calle Madero                   .38       A     Roundabout     .71     C
                                             Stop
                                          Side Street
6         La Costa Ave and Gibraltor St                 .37       A     Roundabout     .60     B
                                             Stop
    PM Peak Hour
4       La Costa Ave and Cadencia St        Signal      .56       B     Roundabout     .53     A
                                          Side Street
5       La Costa Ave and Calle Madero                   .36       A     Roundabout     .60     A
                                             Stop
                                          Side Street
6         La Costa Ave and Gibraltor St                 .34       A     Roundabout     .63     B
                                             Stop



KOA Corporation                               6                                    August 16, 2011
As can be seen from the above table, the greatest change in level of service will shift from an A
to a C at Calle Madero, however all three intersections would continue to operate at a
satisfactory level.

DISCUSSION OF PHASE I/II VERSUS LA COSTA AVENUE IMPROVEMENT PLAN

There have been two phases to the La Costa Avenue study process. The earlier, Phase I/II
examination of traffic issues for La Costa Avenue culminated in a report entitled the La Costa
Avenue Road Diet Arterial Traffic Calming Project, and was published September of 2008 by
KOA. Shortly thereafter the process of moving forward was halted to allow for a new approach
and greater involvement of the community. That original study was commissioned to address
concerns about speeding and traffic safety, and the focus was to see if a "road diet" was
applicable to these concerns. Data was accumulated for this study and presented in the report
for both daily and peak periods, and comparisons between having no project versus the
conditions with a road diet project were developed in the text and tables. Several methods to
assess the adequacy of the road and intersection conditions were applied to determine
measures of congestion both for existing and future conditions.

More recently the City and the project team have undertaken a process involving community
engagement over a series of three public meetings beginning on April 28, 2011, again on May
26, 2011, with the third such meeting occurring on June 23, 2011. This technical memorandum
presents new information regarding the traffic volumes and conditions along the length of the
project defined for the second and most recent evaluation. The current process is called the La
Costa Avenue Improvement Plan. There are some differences in the data and in the results
obtained for this Improvement Plan evaluation when compared to the Phase I/II report. The
differences are discussed in the next paragraphs.

Traffic counts were originally taken from May 2007 to January 2008 for the Phase I/II report at
ten different segmental locations and at another 14 intersections. More recently, the City of
Carlsbad has obtained traffic counts from 2010 and 2011 as part of the ongoing monitoring
program of street conditions as well as commissioning a series of "before" and "after" counts to
understand what, if any, volume changes may occur as La Costa Avenue begins to have some
changes made to it to address speeds and other issues. Interestingly, at the three locations that
overlap between the Phase I/II and Improvement Plan work, we observe that at each location,
the volumes have decreased since the original counts. The average decrease on the daily
volumes is between two and three percent.

Forecasted traffic available from SANDAG for the period between now and the "horizon" year of
2030 is used as the basis for determining the likely growth in the study area. This growth
between two representative years in their forecasts is applied to the existing traffic counts for
segmental volumes and intersection volumes to obtain future peak hour volumes for analysis.
Since the preparation of the Phase I/II report and now, several years have passed, so the
proportion of growth between the "existing" year and the "horizon" year involves fewer years
which has an effect on how the future year volumes are calculated. The result is the growth
percentages, and therefore, the future volumes are not as high for the Improvement Plan work
as they were for the Phase I/II analysis.




KOA Corporation                             7                                      August 16, 2011
The methods to assess congestion and the techniques employed differ between the Phase I/II
and Improvement Plan reports. For daily, segmental analysis the Phase I report uses a process
called the "SANTEC" method published by SANDAG. These are general guidelines for what the
upper limit of daily traffic might be on different types of roadway classifications in the region
without consideration of the actual conditions during the peak period. The Phase I/II report also
looks at another approach called the "Florida DOT" method to understand the adequacy of
roadway segments in the peak hour and in the peak direction. The application of the Florida
DOT method in the Phase I/II report in 2008 necessitates the use of a customized spreadsheet
that involves the use of side street volumes rather than one-way volumes as is now the case in
the nationally distributed software versions of this same technique that were not available when
the Phase I/II report was prepared. As a result, volumes could have been over-represented
leading to the appearance of more congestion than otherwise would occur. For intersections,
the techniques described by the 2000 Highway Capacity Manual (HCM) are employed for the
Phase I/II report, and this method determines the amount of delay that a driver would
experience on the average at either signalized intersections, or it would be the delay to enter
from the side street at stop-controlled intersections. Results using the HCM method rather than
the ICU method preferred by the City of Carlsbad can lead to slightly different results.

In the Improvement Plan process, this technical memorandum employs a method for the
adequacy of operation by using the methodology defined in the City of Carlsbad's Traffic
Monitoring Program. These techniques are the same methods used to assess a developer
impact study presented for a land use decision and environmental study. The ICU method is the
regularly used method for TIS and the growth monitoring studies. For roadway segments, the
actual hourly, directional traffic volume is divided by the idealized capacity of 1,800 vehicles per
hour per lane to obtain a ratio. Depending on whether the ratio is between certain limits the level
of service is determined with a ratio of 1.00 being the "capacity" of the roadway lane, or its
carrying capacity of 1,800 vehicles per hour in a direction. The intersection process, called the
Intersection Capacity Utilization method (ICU), uses a slightly different method to arrive at
another measure of utilization based on the conflicts of vehicles within the intersection. Again,
the results are expressed as a decimal with 1.00 representing the "capacity". This method has
long been employed throughout the County for decades and enjoys the benefit of being simple,
easily reproducible and understandable. All of these methods and the software that drives them
have a series of default parameters that the analyst can choose to use or revise as appropriate.
One example is the percentage of trucks that are assumed to be part of the traffic stream. In the
roundabout software the default percentage for trucks is twenty percent, a relatively large
percentage for any street, much less La Costa Avenue which the City prohibits from being used
for through trucking movements. Depending on how these parameters are adjusted or not to
reflect reality can affect the results.

Presented Appendix E Aare side-by-side comparison tables of the results of all of these
methods as they were reported originally in the Phase I/II report and as they are now being
calculated for the Improvement Plan work which is explained in the other sections of this memo.




COST ESTIMATE
KOA Corporation                              8                                       August 16, 2011
To estimate costs for the proposed improvements along La Costa Avenue, conceptual drawings
were measured and scaled to get approximate quantities. For planning-level estimates, itemized
quantities were limited to the primary measurable items such as removal of pavement or
concrete, construction of curb, gutter, sidewalk, or full depth asphalt concrete, striping, etc.
These estimates were done for each location seen on the concept plans and reference numbers
shown in a key map graphic. In addition to the specific concept locations, project-wide
improvements such as striping and sidewalk construction were shown. Due to the uncertainty of
prices and to be able to bracket the likely cost, we have applied lower and a higher pay item
prices. The result is a project cost price range between $3.1 and $4.7 million. Without the
"missing link" sidewalk portion of construction, the price range is calculated between $2.3 and
$3.5 million.

As with all cost estimations, assumptions were made to determine the quantities and costs. The
major assumptions made include:
                x Contingency of 20% of each location total
                x Traffic Control and Mobilization at 8% of the project construction total
                x Design, construction management, and administration at 20% of the project
                    construction total
                x Masonry retaining walls approximately 5 feet high needed for 50% of "missing
                    link" sidewalk construction
                x Roundabouts would not require major pavement grade reconstruction

The complete print out of the planning level cost estimates and key map graphic are included in
Appendix F.




Attachment A: Figures
Attachment B: Counts
Attachment C: Concept
Attachment D: Analysis Printouts
Attachment E: PHASE I/II Versus Comparison Tables
Attachment F: Cost Estimate




KOA Corporation                            9                                      August 16, 2011
              


$WWDFKPHQW$
   )LJXUHV
La Costa Avenue                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Existing & 2030 Conditions




                                                                                                                                                     Way la
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      St.




                                             El C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ncia




                                                                                                                                                  Castil
                                                                                           ta Ave.




                                                 amin
                                                                                         os




                                                                                     C
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Quinta St.




                                                                                                                                           i e jo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C ade
                                                                                                                                                                                         .                                                         cle




                                                                                    La
                                                                                                                                                                                St




                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Cir




                                                                  Driveway
                                                                                                                                                                             ar




                                                                  Shopping Center
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              a




                                                     o Real
                                                                                                                                                                          alt                                                     4       o m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Co l




                                                                                                                                                                   Gibr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   t.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                                                                               5        6                                                                 Esfer a        urt




                                                                                                                                                                                              Rom
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     a Co
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D ehe  s
             LEGEND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ad




                                                                                                                                                                                                 e ria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Fe Ro




                                                                                                                                                                    C a ll
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Santa




                                                                                                                                                                                                   St.
                                  Geometric Configuration                                                                                                                                                                                            ho
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  St.             nc




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ra
                                  Traffic Signal / Stop Sign                                                                                                                                                              ant e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Lev




                                                                                                                                                                          e Madero




                                                                                                                     Nueva Castilla Way
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N
                  10              Peak Hour Volumes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Not To Scale
                       4   La Costa Ave. &                    5   La Costa Ave. & Calle                          4                 La Costa Ave. &                                   5   La Costa Ave. & Calle                                           4   La Costa Ave. &        5   La Costa Ave. & Calle
                           Cadencia St                            Madero                                                           Cadencia St                                           Madero                                                              Cadencia St                Madero

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   827                                                                               491
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   19                                                                                8
                              see Figure 1                                                                                                 see Figure 1                                                                                                         see Figure 1
                                                                                                                                           for volumes                                                                                                          for volumes
                                                                                                                                                                                         450                                                                                             756
                                                                                                                                                                                          26                                                                                              32




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8




                       6
                                                                                                        AM       6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PM                      6
                           La Costa Ave. &                                                                                         La Costa Ave. &                                                                                                           La Costa Ave. &
                           Gibraltar St                                                              Peak Hour                     Gibraltar St                                                                               Peak Hour                      Gibraltar St




                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                          52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              26




                                                                                                                                                              3                                                                                                           6
                                                                                                                                                              794                                                                                                         475

                                                                                                                                           7                                                                                                                   33




 Existing Geometries
                                                                                                                                          457                                                                                                                 731

                       4   La Costa Ave. &                    5   La Costa Ave. & Calle                          4                 La Costa Ave. &                                   5   La Costa Ave. & Calle                                           4   La Costa Ave. &        5   La Costa Ave. & Calle
                           Cadencia St.                           Madero                                                           Cadencia St                                           Madero                                                              Cadencia St                Madero

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   992                                                                               589
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   23                                                                                10
                                                                                                                                           see Figure 1                                                                                                         see Figure 1
                                                                                                                                           for volumes                                                                                                          for volumes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        16




                                                                                                                                                                                             540
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        907
                                                                                                                                                                                              31                                                                                         38

                       6
                                                                                                       2030      6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2030                     6                          4
                           La Costa Ave. &                                                                                         La Costa Ave. &                                                                                                           La Costa Ave. &
                           Gibraltar St.                                                                AM                         Gibraltar St.                                                                                 PM                          Gibraltar St.

                                                                                                     Peak Hour                                                                                                                Peak Hour
                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                                                          62
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             31




                                                                                                                                                              4                                                                                                           7
                                                                                                                                                              953                                                                                                         570




 Future Geometries
                                                                                                                                           8                                                                                                                  40
                                                                                                                                          548                                                                                                                877


                                                                                                                                          Figure 2 - Existing & 2030 Conditions
KOA Corporation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  August 2011
La Costa Avenue                                                                                                                                                                                                  Existing Conditions




                                                                               lla Way
                                                                                                                                                                         cia St.
                                  La Costa Ave.
                                                  178




                                                                             C a st i
                                                      70




                                                                             jo
                                                                                                                                                    12700
                                                                                                                                                                 C a d en




                                                                                                                                       Quinta St.




                                                                         Vie
                                                                                                                                                                                                   le




       Driveway
       Shopping Center
                                                                                                                                                                                             C irc




                                                          Nu e
                                                                                  15                                   St.                                                                 a
                                                                                         37                                                                                        Co   lom
                                                                                           0




                                                                                                           Gibraltar
                                                                                                                             Rom
                                                                                                                                 e
                                                                                                                                                                                        Es fera St.


                                                                                                                               ria S
                                                                                                                                 t.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      u rt
                                                                                                                                                                                                 a Co




                                                                                               C all e
                                                                                                                                                                                            h e s                  ad




                                                    va Castilla Way
                                                                                                                                                                                          De                 Fe Ro
                                                                                                                                                                                                       n t a
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sa
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ho




                                                                                                  Madero
                                                                                                                                                                                                nc
                                                                                                                                                                                              Ra




                                                                                                                                                                           .
                                                                                                                                                                        St
                                                                                                                                                                  te
                                                                                                                                                        Le   v an




    LEGEND
     15                  Average Daily Traffic                                           Figure 3                                                                                                                       N
                                                                      Existing Roadway Segment Average Daily Traffic                                                                                            Not To Scale

KOA Corporation                                                                                                                                                                                                             August 2011
La Costa Avenue                                                                                                                                                                                                        Existing Conditions




                                                                                   lla Way
                                                                                                                                                                               cia St.
                                                   148
                                 La Costa Ave.        5/1




                                                                                 C a st i
                                                                    785




                                                                                 jo
                                                                                                                                                                       C a d en
                                                                                                                                                        1122/1087




                                                                                                                                           Quinta St.




                                                                             Vie
                                                                                                                                                                                                         le




       Driveway
       Shopping Center
                                                                                                                                                                                                   C irc




                                                               Nu e
                                                                                  13                                       St.
                                                                                       63                                                                                                        a
                                                                                             /1                                                                                          Co   lom
                                                                                               51




                                                                                                               Gibraltar
                                                                                                                                 Rom
                                                                                                  6


                                                                                                                                     e
                                                                                                                                                                                              Es fera St.


                                                                                                                                   ria S
                                                                                                                                     t.
                                                                                                                                                                                                            u rt
                                                                                                                                                                                                       a Co




                                                                                                  C all e
                                                                                                                                                                                                  h e s                  ad




                                                         va Castilla Way
                                                                                                                                                                                                De                 Fe Ro
                                                                                                                                                                                                             n t a
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Sa
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ho




                                                                                                      Madero
                                                                                                                                                                                                      nc
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ra




                                                                                                                                                                                 .
                                                                                                                                                                              St
                                                                                                                                                                        te
                                                                                                                                                              Le   v an




    LEGEND
    15/16                AM/PM Peak Hour Traffic                                             Figure 4                                                                                                                         N
                                                                           Existing AM & PM Peak Hour Segment Volumes                                                                                                 Not To Scale

KOA Corporation                                                                                                                                                                                                                   August 2011
La Costa Avenue                                                                                                                                                                                           2030 Year Conditions




                                                                            lla Way
                                  La Costa Ave.   214                                                                                                                cia St.




                                                                          C a st i
                                                            40




                                                                          jo
                                                                                                                                                             C a d en
                                                                                                                                                15250




                                                                                                                                   Quinta St.




                                                                      Vie
                                                                                                                                                                                               le




       Driveway
       Shopping Center
                                                                                                                                                                                         C irc




                                                         Nu e
                                                                            18                                     St.                                                                 a
                                                                                     45                                                                                        Co   lom
                                                                                       0




                                                                                                       Gibraltar
                                                                                                                         Rom
                                                                                                                             e
                                                                                                                                                                                    Es fera St.


                                                                                                                           ria S
                                                                                                                             t.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  u rt
                                                                                                                                                                                             a Co




                                                                                           C all e
                                                                                                                                                                                        h e s                  ad




                                                   va Castilla Way
                                                                                                                                                                                      De                 Fe Ro
                                                                                                                                                                                                   n t a
                                                                                                                                                                                                Sa
                                                                                                                                                                                              ho




                                                                                              Madero
                                                                                                                                                                                            nc
                                                                                                                                                                                          Ra




                                                                                                                                                                       .
                                                                                                                                                                    St
                                                                                                                                                              te
                                                                                                                                                    Le   v an




    LEGEND
     15                  Average Daily Traffic                                       Figure 5                                                                                                                       N
                                                                     2030 Roadway Segment Average Daily Traffic                                                                                             Not To Scale

KOA Corporation                                                                                                                                                                                                         August 2011
La Costa Avenue                                                                                                                                                                                                   2030 Year Conditions




                                                                                  lla Way
                                                                                                                                                                             cia St.
                                                   178
                                 La Costa Ave.




                                                                                C a st i
                                                      2/2




                                                                                jo
                                                                      082                                                                                            C a d en
                                                                                                                                                      1346/1304




                                                                                                                                         Quinta St.




                                                                            Vie
                                                                                                                                                                                                       le




       Driveway
       Shopping Center
                                                                                                                                                                                                 C irc




                                                               Nu e
                                                                                 16                                      St.
                                                                                       36                                                                                                      a
                                                                                            /1                                                                                         Co   lom




                                                                                                             Gibraltar
                                                                                              81



                                                                                                                               Rom
                                                                                                 9


                                                                                                                                   e
                                                                                                                                                                                            Es fera St.


                                                                                                                                 ria S
                                                                                                                                   t.
                                                                                                                                                                                                          u rt
                                                                                                                                                                                                     a Co




                                                                                                 C all e
                                                                                                                                                                                                h e s                  ad




                                                         va Castilla Way
                                                                                                                                                                                              De                 Fe Ro
                                                                                                                                                                                                           n t a
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sa
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ho




                                                                                                    Madero
                                                                                                                                                                                                    nc
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ra




                                                                                                                                                                               .
                                                                                                                                                                            St
                                                                                                                                                                      te
                                                                                                                                                            Le   v an




    LEGEND
    15/16                AM/PM Peak Hour Traffic                                           Figure 6                                                                                                                         N
                                                                            2030 AM & PM Peak Hour Segment Volumes                                                                                                  Not To Scale

KOA Corporation                                                                                                                                                                                                                 August 2011
              


$WWDFKPHQW%
    &RXQWV
                                                                                                                               GrowthRate       1.20
                                                                         ACCURALCOUNTS                                                                      2030FORECAST
                                         HISTORIC        EXISTINGLaneConfigurtion          ImprovementPlan                     2030     EXISTINGLaneConfiguration          ImprovementPlan
               Corridor                  VOLUME     LANES      CAPACITY  VOL/CAP LOS LANES   CAPACITY    VOL/CAP        LOS   VOLUME   LANES CAPACITY VOL/CAP LOS LANES CAPACITY VOL/CAP        LOS
WESTOFNUEVACASTILLAWAY                                         EXISTING                        RoadDiet                                         EXISTING                       RoadDiet
DATE       DAY DIR       PEAKTIME        VOLUME     LANES      CAPACITY  VOL/CAP LOS LANES   CAPACITY    VOL/CAP        LOS   VOLUME   LANES CAPACITY VOL/CAP LOS LANES CAPACITY VOL/CAP        LOS
 5/25/2010 TU   EB AMPEAK     7:158:15     502        2          3600      0.14   A    1        1800       0.28          A      602      2       3600       0.17    A    1     1800      0.33    A
                    PMPEAK    5:006:00    1111        2          3600      0.31   A    1        1800       0.62          B     1333      2       3600       0.37    A    1     1800      0.74    D
 5/25/2010 TU WB AMPEAK       7:158:15     983        2          3600      0.27   A    1        1800       0.55          A     1180      2       3600       0.33    A    1     1800      0.66    C
                    PMPEAK    2:303:30     624        2          3600      0.17   A    1        1800       0.35          A      749      2       3600       0.21    A    1     1800      0.42    A
                              AMTOTAL     1485                                                                                 1782
                              PMTOTAL     1735                                                                                 2082
WESTOFCALLEMADERO                                              EXISTING                            RoadDiet                                     EXISTING                     RoadDiet
DATE       DAY DIR       PEAKTIME        VOLUME     LANES      CAPACITY   VOL/CAP   LOS   LANES   CAPACITY    VOL/CAP   LOS   VOLUME   LANES   CAPACITY VOL/CAP LOS LANES   CAPACITY VOL/CAP    LOS
 5/25/2010 TU   EB AMPEAK     7:008:00     525        2          3600       0.15     A      1       1800        0.29     A      630      2       3600     0.18   A    1       1800     0.35      A
                    PMPEAK    5:006:00     935        2          3600       0.26     A      1       1800        0.52     A     1122      2       3600     0.31   A    1       1800     0.62      A
 5/25/2010 TU WB AMPEAK       7:158:15     838        2          3600       0.23     A      1       1800        0.47     A     1006      2       3600     0.28   A    1       1800     0.56      B
                    PMPEAK    2:303:30     581        2          3600       0.16     A      1       1800        0.32     A      697      2       3600     0.19   A    1       1800     0.39      A
                              AMTOTAL     1363                                                                                 1636
                              PMTOTAL     1516                                                                                 1819
WESTOFCADENCIA                                                 EXISTING                            RoadDiet                                     EXISTING                     RoadDiet
DATE       DAY DIR       PEAKTIME        VOLUME     LANES      CAPACITY   VOL/CAP   LOS   LANES   CAPACITY    VOL/CAP   LOS   VOLUME   LANES   CAPACITY VOL/CAP LOS LANES   CAPACITY VOL/CAP    LOS
 5/19/2011  W   EB AMPEAK     7:008:00     445        1          1800       0.25     A      1       1800        0.25     A      534      1       1800     0.30   A    1       1800     0.30      A
                    PMPEAK    5:006:00     629        1          1800       0.35     A      1       1800        0.35     A      755      1       1800     0.42   B    1       1800     0.42      B
 5/19/2011  W   WB AMPEAK     7:008:00     677        2          3600       0.19     A      1       1800        0.38     A      812      2       3600     0.23   A    1       1800     0.45      A
                    PMPEAK    3:004:00     458        2          3600       0.13     A      1       1800        0.25     A      550      2       3600     0.15   A    1       1800     0.31      A
                              AMTOTAL     1122                                                                                 1346
                              PMTOTAL     1087                                                                                 1304

                                                    Existing    2030
DailyTraffic                                          ADT        ADT
WESTOFNUEVACASTILLAWAY                               17869      21443
WESTOFCALLEMADERO                                    15371      18445
WESTOFCADENCIA                                       12708      15250
Site Name               La Costa Avenue~350' w/o Nueva Castilla Way
Jurisdiction            Carlsbad
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           1
Direction               East
Date                    5/24/2010
Real Time               15:38
Start Date              5/24/2010
Start Time              16:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         77
Machine Number          27442

Tuesday, May 25, 2010

                    Channel 1                              Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR      HR                                     HR                                HR
 Begin   Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00         48     16    10    12    10
  01         29       7    6     7     9
  02         18       6    3     9     0
  03           6      3    1     1     1
  04         11       1    3     2     5
  05         52       3    6    19    24
  06        158     23    25    49    61
  07        493     90   163   136   104
  08        352     99    92    80    81
  09        348     82    94    73    99
  10        399     90    88   100   121
  11        412    110   106    94   102
  12        476    121   136   104   115
  13        517    103   115   143   156
  14        605    128   160   169   148
  15        708    175   190   155   188
  16        852    206   214   211   221
  17       1111    261   275   293   282
  18        872    197   281   206   188
  19        631    168   156   168   139
  20        468    136   118   105   109
  21        372    125    87    81    79
  22        203     56    51    54    42
  23         97     26    26    33    12
           9238 Total                                   Total                             Total
Site Name               La Costa Avenue~465' w/o Nueva Castilla Way
Jurisdiction            Carlsbad
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           3
Direction               West
Date                    5/24/2010
Real Time               15:51
Start Date              5/24/2010
Start Time              16:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         77
Machine Number          17341

Tuesday, May 25, 2010

                    Channel 1                              Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR      HR                                     HR                                HR
 Begin   Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00        Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00         16       9    4     2     1
  01         12       4    4     2     2
  02           4      1    1     1     1
  03           6      0    2     2     2
  04         62       9   17    13    23
  05        175     22    43    48    62
  06        533     97   114   152   170
  07        935    185   234   275   241
  08        815    233   206   203   173
  09        585    155   132   161   137
  10        476    110   126   122   118
  11        455    115    94   121   125
  12        492    135   133   116   108
  13        469    115    97   140   117
  14        546     85   123   162   176
  15        548    150   136   128   134
  16        547    134   138   148   127
  17        583    150   143   153   137
  18        456    133   105    99   119
  19        364     99    89    90    86
  20        244     49    68    67    60
  21        186     45    47    48    46
  22         78     32    15    16    15
  23         44     16     6     9    13
           8631 Total                                   Total                             Total
Site Name               La Costa Avenue~545' e/o Viejo Castilla Way
Jurisdiction            Carlsbad
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           2
Direction               East
Date                    5/24/2010
Real Time               15:43
Start Date              5/24/2010
Start Time              16:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         77
Machine Number          105329

Tuesday, May 25, 2010

                    Channel 1                               Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR      HR                                      HR                                HR
 Begin   Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00         Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00         48     21    10     9     8
  01         26       6    6     6     8
  02         16       6    2     8     0
  03           4      2    1     0     1
  04           9      0    2     2     5
  05         52       4    7    15    26
  06        155     21    24    46    64
  07        525     97   175   149   104
  08        331     96    90    73    72
  09        312     76    77    70    89
  10        343     81    68    92   102
  11        342     92    91    74    85
  12        390    101   107    84    98
  13        405     82    95   104   124
  14        527    101   140   149   137
  15        594    147   152   133   162
  16        732    175   180   186   191
  17        935    222   228   251   234
  18        711    172   220   170   149
  19        510    138   123   123   126
  20        373    114    95    94    70
  21        296     98    68    65    65
  22        167     47    43    41    36
  23         89     25    24    30    10
           7892 Total                                    Total                             Total
Site Name               La Costa Avenue~545' e/o Viejo Castilla Way
Jurisdiction            Carlsbad
Study Type              Volume (ch1)
Location Code           2
Direction               West
Date                    5/24/2010
Real Time               15:46
Start Date              5/24/2010
Start Time              16:00
Sample Time             00:15
Operator Number         77
Machine Number          98242

Tuesday, May 25, 2010

                    Channel 1                               Channel 2                      Channel 1 + Channel 2
  HR      HR                                      HR                                HR
 Begin   Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00         Total   00-15 15-30 30-45 45-00   Total    00-15   15-30   30-45   45-00
  00         18     11     5     1     1
  01         11       4    4     1     2
  02           4      1    1     1     1
  03           7      1    1     1     4
  04         55       8   12    12    23
  05        149     23    33    36    57
  06        457     86   102   123   146
  07        802    167   196   230   209
  08        681    203   172   166   140
  09        485    140   110   122   113
  10        395     96   102   101    96
  11        381     88    73   111   109
  12        411    114   108    95    94
  13        400     93    80   124   103
  14        492     72   100   154   166
  15        482    134   127    98   123
  16        490    122   119   129   120
  17        539    139   128   151   121
  18        428    119   101    97   111
  19        295     79    79    73    64
  20        199     40    55    49    55
  21        183     44    51    46    42
  22         77     30    13    19    15
  23         38     18     3     8     9
           7479 Total                                    Total                             Total
   Day: THURSDAY                        Classification Report / Prepared by: National Data & Surveying Services                            City: Carlsbad
  Date: 5/19/11                                Location: La Costa Ave 'DLO\&ODVVLILFDWLRQ5HSRUW
                                                                      btwn Quinta St & Cadencia St                                    Project #: 11-4145-002e
                                                                3UHSDUHGE\6RXWKODQG&DU&RXQWHUV

(DVW%RXQG
  7LPH                                                                                                                                                          7RWDO
   00:00 AM           0         32        3          0            0            0       0            0         0         0         0             0      0          35
   01:00              0         16        1          0            1            0       0            0         0         0         0             0      0          18
   02:00              0          8        0          0            0            0       0            0         0         0         0             0      0           8
   03:00              0          3        1          0            0            0       0            0         0         0         0             0      0           4
   04:00              0          5        2          0            0            0       0            0         0         0         0             0      0           7
   05:00              0         34        5          0            3            0       0            0         0         0         0             0      0          42
   06:00              0        134       27          0            9            0       0            0         1         0         0             0      0         171
   07:00              1        369       50          1           20            1       0            1         2         0         0             0      0         445
   08:00              0        236       60          2           15            0       0            0         4         0         0             0      0         317
   09:00              2        234       41          0            9            0       0            0         0         0         0             0      0         286
   10:00              1        199       34          2           12            0       0            0         1         0         0             0      0         249
   11:00              0        241       47          2            8            0       0            0         2         0         0             0      0         300
   12:00 PM           3        302       61          0           20            2       0            0         1         0         0             0      0         389
   13:00              2        275       49          2           10            2       0            0         2         0         0             0      0         342
   14:00              3        361       70          0           18            0       0            0         2         0         0             0      0         454
   15:00              0        408       53          0           18            1       0            0         1         0         0             0      0         481
   16:00
    6 00              2        475       79
                                          9          0           17            1       0            0         5         0         0             0      0         579
                                                                                                                                                                   9
   17:00              5        536       66          1           19            1       0            0         1         0         0             0      0         629
   18:00              0        492       59          0            9            0       0            0         1         0         0             0      0         561
   19:00              3        375       36          0            7            0       0            0         0         0         0             0      0         421
   20:00              0        281       33          0            4            0       0            0         0         0         0             0      0         318
   21:00              0        165       29          0            3            0       0            0         0         0         0             0      0         197
   22:00              0        105       16          0            5            0       0            0         0         0         0             0      0         126
   23:00              0         58        8          0            3            0       0            0         0         0         0             0      0          69
  Totals             22       5344      830         10          210            8                    1        23                                                 6448
   % of Totals       0%        83%      13%         0%           3%           0%                  0%        0%                                                  100%
                       4       1511      271          7           77           1       0            1        10         0         0             0       0        1882
        % AM         0%        23%       4%         0%           1%           0%                  0%        0%                                                   29%
 AM Peak Hour      09:00      07:00    08:00      08:00         07:00     07:00                  07:00    08:00                                                 07:00
      Volume          2        369       60          2            20          1                     1         4                                                  445
                      18       3833      559          3          133           7       0            0        13         0         0             0       0        4566
        % PM         0%        59%       9%         0%           2%           0%                            0%                                                   71%
 PM Peak Hour      17:00      17:00    16:00      13:00         12:00     12:00                           16:00                                                 17:00
        l
      Volume          5        536       79          2            20          2                               5                                                  629
      Directional Factor % 51 4578                                      629          Directional Peak Hr for Day    17:00            Peak Hr % 9 75
'LUHFWLRQDO3HDN3HULRGV                         AM 7-9                          NOON 12-2                           PM 4-6                   Off Peak Volumes
$OO&ODVVHV                            Volume               %            Volume              %            Volume              %         Volume               %
                                       762                12%            731               11%           1208               19%          3747               58%
   Day: THURSDAY                        Classification Report / Prepared by: National Data & Surveying Services                              City: Carlsbad
  Date: 5/19/11                                Location: La Costa Ave btwn Quinta St & Cadencia St
                                                           'DLO\&ODVVLILFDWLRQ5HSRUW                                                    Project #: 11-4145-002w
                                                                Prepared by: Southland Car Counters
:HVW%RXQG
  7LPH                                                                                                                                                            7RWDO
   00:00 AM           0         13        4           0            0           0         0           0          0         0         0              0      0         17
   01:00              0          7        1           0            0           0         0           0          0         0         0              0      0          8
   02:00              0         10        1           0            0           0         0           0          0         0         0              0      0         11
   03:00              0         15        2           0            0           0         0           0          0         0         0              0      0         17
   04:00              0         29        6           0            0           0         0           0          0         0         0              0      0         35
   05:00              0        100       18           0            1           0         0           0          0         0         0              0      0        119
   06:00              4        295       37           1           12           0         0           0          3         0         0              0      0        352
   07:00              7        570       77           0           15           2         0           0          6         0         0              0      0        677
   08:00              3        432       66           1           12           3         0           0          3         0         0              0      0        520
   09:00              1        334       41           0           17           2         0           0          1         0         0              0      0        396
   10:00              3        308       30           0           12           1         0           0          4         0         0              0      0        358
   11:00              1        240       36           0           13           0         0           0          2         0         0              0      0        292
   12:00 PM           4        274       52           0           11           1         0           0          2         0         0              0      0        344
   13:00              1        250       45           0           10           1         0           0          2         0         0              0      0        309
   14:00              1        344       42           3           11           2         0           0          3         0         0              0      0        406
   15:00              1        362       64           1           21           3         0           0          6         0         0              0      0        458
   16:00              1        369       62           0            3           1         0           0          2         0         0              0      0        438
   17:00              2        404       45           0            4           1         0           0          2         0         0              0      0        458
   18:00              2        287       34           2            4           1         0           0          1         0         0              0      0        331
   19:00              0        217       15           0            1           1         0           0          1         0         0              0      0        235
   20:00              1        199       14           0            2           1         0           0          0         0         0              0      0        217
   21:00              0        128       17           0            1           0         0           0          0         0         0              0      0        146
   22:00              0         74       10           0            1           1         0           0          0         0         0              0      0         86
   23:00              0         22        7           0            1           0         0           0          0         0         0              0      0         30
  Totals             32       5283      726           8          152          21                               38                                                 6260
   % of Totals       1%        84%      12%         0%            2%          0%                              1%                                                  100%
                      19       2353      319          2           82           8         0           0         19         0         0              0      0        2802
        % AM         0%        38%       5%         0%            1%          0%                              0%                                                   45%
 AM Peak Hour      07:00      07:00    07:00      06:00         09:00     08:00                             07:00                                                 07:00
      Volume          7        570       77          1            17          3                                 6                                                  677
                      13       2930      407          6           70          13         0           0         19         0         0              0      0        3458
         % PM        0%        47%       7%         0%            1%          0%                              0%                                                   55%
 PM Peak Hour      12:00      17:00    15:00      14:00         15:00     15:00                             15:00                                                 15:00
      Volume          4        404       64          3            21          3                                 6                                                  458
      Directional Factor % 48 5422                                      677            Directional Peak Hr for Day    07:00             Peak Hr % 10 81
'LUHFWLRQDO3HDN3HULRGV                         AM 7-9                          NOON 12-2                             PM 4-6                   Off Peak Volumes
$OO&ODVVHV                            Volume               %            Volume                %           Volume               %          Volume              %
                                      1197                19%             653                10%            896               14%           3514              56%
   Day: THURSDAY                      Classification Report / Prepared by: National Data & Surveying Services                           City: Carlsbad
  Date: 5/19/11                                           'DLO\&ODVVLILFDWLRQ5HSRUW
                                             Location: La Costa Ave btwn Quinta St & Cadencia St                                   Project #: 11-4145-002
                                                              Prepared by: Southland Car Counters
6800$5<
  7LPH                                                                                                                                                       7RWDO
   00:00 AM           0       45        7          0             0         0         0            0        0         0         0             0       0          52
   01:00              0       23        2          0             1         0         0            0        0         0         0             0       0          26
   02:00              0       18        1          0             0         0         0            0        0         0         0             0       0          19
   03:00              0       18        3          0             0         0         0            0        0         0         0             0       0          21
   04:00              0       34        8          0             0         0         0            0        0         0         0             0       0          42
   05:00              0      134       23          0             4         0         0            0        0         0         0             0       0         161
   06:00              4      429       64          1            21         0         0            0        4         0         0             0       0         523
   07:00              8      939      127          1            35         3         0            1        8         0         0             0       0        1122
   08:00              3      668      126          3            27         3         0            0        7         0         0             0       0         837
   09:00              3      568       82          0            26         2         0            0        1         0         0             0       0         682
   10:00              4      507       64          2            24         1         0            0        5         0         0             0       0         607
   11:00              1      481       83          2            21         0         0            0        4         0         0             0       0         592
   12:00 PM           7      576      113          0            31         3         0            0        3         0         0             0       0         733
   13:00              3      525       94          2            20         3         0            0        4         0         0             0       0         651
   14:00              4      705      112          3            29         2         0            0        5         0         0             0       0         860
   15:00              1      770      117          1            39         4         0            0        7         0         0             0       0         939
   16:00              3      844      141          0            20         2         0            0        7         0         0             0       0        1017
   17:00              7      940      111          1            23         2         0            0        3         0         0             0       0        1087
   18:00              2      779       93          2            13         1         0            0        2         0         0             0       0         892
   19:00              3      592       51          0             8         1         0            0        1         0         0             0       0         656
   20:00              1      480       47          0             6         1         0            0        0         0         0             0       0         535
   21:00              0      293       46          0             4         0         0            0        0         0         0             0       0         343
   22:00              0      179       26          0             6         1         0            0        0         0         0             0       0         212
   23:00              0       80       15          0             4         0         0            0        0         0         0             0       0          99
  Totals             54    10627     1556         18           362        29                      1       61                                                12708
   % of
      fTTotals
          t l       0%       84%      12%        0%             3%       0%                     0%        0%                                                    100%
                     23     3864       590         9            159        9         0            1        29        0         0             0       0          4684
        % AM        0%       30%       5%        0%             1%       0%                     0%        0%                                                    37%
 AM Peak Hour      07:00    07:00    07:00      08:00         07:00     07:00                  07:00    07:00                                                   07:00
      Volume          8      939      127          3            35         3                      1        8                                                    1122
                     31     6763       966         9            203       20         0            0        32        0         0             0       0          8024
         % PM       0%       53%       8%        0%             2%       0%                               0%                                                    63%
 PM Peak Hour      12:00    17:00    16:00      14:00         15:00     15:00                           15:00                                                   17:00
      Volume          7      940      141          3            39         4                               7                                                    1087
3HDN3HULRG7RWDOV                             AM 7-9                        NOON 12-2                            PM 4-6                   Off Peak Volumes
                                    Volume               %            Volume              %            Volume             %         Volume                  %
                                    1959                15%            1384              11%           2104              17%           7261                 57%
                                    Intersection Turning Movement
                                                               Prepared by:
                                            National Data & Surveying Services
          Project ID: CA11_4144_001                                                                                          Day: THURSDAY

                  City: City of Carlsbad                                                                                    Date: 5/19/2011
                                                                                AM
     NS/EW Streets:          Nueva Castilla Way           Nueva Castilla Way              La Costa Ave                  La Costa Ave
                                NORTHBOUND                  SOUTHBOUND                    EASTBOUND                     WESTBOUND

                           NL        NT       NR      SL         ST        SR        EL       ET         ER        WL       WT         WR      TOTAL
     LANES:                0          1        0      0           0         0        0         2          0        1         2          0

           7:00   AM       9                   7                                              110         4        2        200                332
           7:15   AM       11                  7                                              146         4        4        241                413
           7:30   AM       7                   7                                               77         5        6        264                366
           7:45   AM       15                  6                                               90         6        4        234                355
           8:00   AM       13                  1                                               82         8        4        208                316
           8:15   AM       7                   2                                               67         4        1        194                275
           8:30   AM       11                  1                                               91         2        2        182                289
           8:45   AM       19                  3                                               78         4        2        179                285

                        NL       NT           NR       SL      ST     SR       EL     ET                  ER       WL      WT          WR      TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :     92        0            34       0       0      0        0     741                 37        25    1702          0       2631
     APPROACH %'s :   73.02%    0.00%        26.98% #DIV/0! #DIV/0! #DIV/0!   0.00% 95.24%               4.76%     1.45% 98.55%        0.00%
                     nb a     nb d                  sb a    sb d            eb a   eb d                          wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :      700 AM                                                                                                               TOTAL

       PEAK HR VOL :       42         0       27      0           0        0         0       423         19        16      939         0       1466

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                 0.821                       0.000                        0.737                         0.884               0.887

          CONTROL : 1-Way Stop (NB)
                                    Intersection Turning Movement
                                                               Prepared by:
                                            National Data & Surveying Services
          Project ID: CA11_4144_001                                                                                          Day: THURSDAY

                  City: City of Carlsbad                                                                                    Date: 5/19/2011
                                                                                PM
     NS/EW Streets:          Nueva Castilla Way           Nueva Castilla Way              La Costa Ave                  La Costa Ave
                                NORTHBOUND                  SOUTHBOUND                    EASTBOUND                     WESTBOUND

                           NL        NT       NR      SL         ST        SR        EL       ET         ER        WL       WT         WR      TOTAL
     LANES:                0          1        0      0           0         0        0         2          0        1         2          0

           4:00   PM       10                  0                                              178        9         3        154                354
           4:15   PM       7                   6                                              192        15        2        146                368
           4:30   PM       9                   3                                              194        19        0        117                342
           4:45   PM       7                   1                                              204        11        0        119                342
           5:00   PM       5                   1                                              203        16        5        115                345
           5:15   PM       5                   3                                              235        19        4        130                396
           5:30   PM       9                   6                                              207        22        3        152                399
           5:45   PM       8                   1                                              185        20        7        116                337

                        NL       NT           NR       SL      ST     SR       EL     ET                  ER       WL      WT          WR      TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :     60        0            21       0       0      0        0    1598                131        24    1049          0       2883
     APPROACH %'s :   74.07%    0.00%        25.93% #DIV/0! #DIV/0! #DIV/0!   0.00% 92.42%               7.58%     2.24% 97.76%        0.00%
                     nb a     nb d                  sb a    sb d            eb a   eb d                          wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :      445 PM                                                                                                               TOTAL

       PEAK HR VOL :       26         0       11      0           0        0         0       849         68        12      516         0       1482

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                 0.617                       0.000                        0.903                         0.852               0.929

          CONTROL : 1-Way Stop (NB)
                                                                                                 ITM Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                  Prepared by:




                                                                                                        National Data & Surveying Services




                                                                  Nueva Castilla Way and La Costa Ave , City of Carlsbad

                                                                                                            3HDN+RXU6XPPDU\

                Date:                     5/19/2011                                                  6RXWKERXQG$SSURDFK                                                    Project #:    CA11_4144_001

                    Day:                  Thursday                                       /DQHV                          




                                                                     1XHYD&DVWLOOD:D\
                                                                                          $0                                                         $0



                                                                                         1221                                                       1221                 $03HDN+RXU               700 AM

                                                                                                                                                                        12213HDN+RXU

                                                                                          30                                                         30                  303HDN+RXU               445 PM


                                    /D&RVWD$YH
                                    $0         1221         30                                                                                                     $0         1221       30     /DQHV




                                                                                                                                                                                                         :HVWERXQG$SSURDFK
(DVWERXQG$SSURDFK




                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                            


                                                                                                                  &21752/                                                                        


                                                                                                                 :D\6WRS1%                                                                      


                                                            

                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                            

                       /DQHV        $0         1221         30                                                                                                     $0         1221       30




                           &RXQW3HULRGV       6WDUW      (QG                              $0                                                         $0

                               $0            7:00 AM   9:00 AM
                                                                                         1221                                                       1221

                              1221          12:00 AM   12:00 AM
                                                                                          30                                                         30

                               30            4:00 PM   6:00 PM                                                                                      /DQHV


                                                                                                     1RUWKERXQG$SSURDFK



                                          7RWDO,QV2XWV                                                                                                      7RWDO9ROXPH3HU/HJ

                                                 1RUWK/HJ                                                                                                               1RUWK/HJ

                                                                    $0                                                                                                                  $0
                                                                   1221                                                                                                                 1221
                                                                    30                                                                                                                   30

    $0                1221          30                                                  (DVW/HJ                                              $0     1221     30                                (DVW/HJ

                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                  

                     :HVW/HJ                                        $0                  1221      30                                               :HVW/HJ                              $0     1221      30

                                    $0                                                                                                                       $0           

                                 1221                                                                                                                       1221           

                                    30                                                                                                                       30           

                                                6RXWK/HJ                                                                                                                6RXWK/HJ
                                     Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                    Prepared by:
                                             National Data & Surveying Services
          Project ID: CA11_4144_002                                                                                                   Day: THURSDAY

                  City: City of Carlsbad                                                                                             Date: 5/19/2011
                                                                                         AM
     NS/EW Streets:            Viejo Castilla Way              Viejo Castilla Way                  La Costa Ave                  La Costa Ave
                                 NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                        EASTBOUND                     WESTBOUND

                           NL           NT      NR        SL          ST        SR            EL       ET         ER        WL       WT         WR      TOTAL
     LANES:                0             0       0        0            1         0            1         2          0        0         2          0

           7:00   AM                                      8                         34        5        113                           174         1      335
           7:15   AM                                      18                        23        6        148                           216         6      417
           7:30   AM                                      8                         21        7         73                           248         4      361
           7:45   AM                                      10                        24        3         97                           215         4      353
           8:00   AM                                      3                         24        4         78                           189         6      304
           8:15   AM                                      4                         28        5         60                           167         2      266
           8:30   AM                                      5                         31        3         88                           155         3      285
           8:45   AM                                      5                         30        6         76                           148         1      266

                           NL           NT      NR         SL       ST          SR           EL     ET             ER       WL      WT          WR      TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :   0       0       0                    61        0         215           39     733             0        0     1512          27      2587
     APPROACH %'s : #DIV/0! #DIV/0! #DIV/0!              22.10%    0.00%      77.90%        5.05% 94.95%          0.00%     0.00% 98.25%        1.75%
                        nb a       nb d                 sb a    sb d                      eb a   eb d                     wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :           700 AM                                                                                                                   TOTAL

       PEAK HR VOL :       0            0           0     44           0       102            21      431         0         0       853         15      1466

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                  0.000                           0.869                            0.734                         0.861               0.879

          CONTROL : 1-Way Stop (SB)
                                     Intersection Turning Movement
                                                                    Prepared by:
                                             National Data & Surveying Services
          Project ID: CA11_4144_002                                                                                                   Day: THURSDAY

                  City: City of Carlsbad                                                                                             Date: 5/19/2011
                                                                                         PM
     NS/EW Streets:            Viejo Castilla Way              Viejo Castilla Way                  La Costa Ave                  La Costa Ave
                                 NORTHBOUND                      SOUTHBOUND                        EASTBOUND                     WESTBOUND

                           NL           NT      NR        SL          ST        SR            EL       ET         ER        WL       WT         WR      TOTAL
     LANES:                0             0       0        0            1         0            1         2          0        0         2          0

           4:00   PM                                       4                        11        23       158                           143        8       347
           4:15   PM                                       1                        17        17       185                           133        3       356
           4:30   PM                                       5                        10        20       174                           106        2       317
           4:45   PM                                       1                        9         18       188                           109        7       332
           5:00   PM                                       4                        15        14       188                           104        10      335
           5:15   PM                                       2                        9         25       211                           125        14      386
           5:30   PM                                       5                        16        22       193                           136        7       379
           5:45   PM                                       5                        18        22       163                           108        6       322

                           NL           NT      NR         SL       ST          SR            EL    ET             ER       WL      WT          WR      TOTAL
    TOTAL VOLUMES :   0       0       0                    27        0         105           161   1460             0        0     964           57      2774
     APPROACH %'s : #DIV/0! #DIV/0! #DIV/0!              20.45%    0.00%      79.55%        9.93% 90.07%          0.00%     0.00% 94.42%        5.58%
                        nb a       nb d                 sb a    sb d                      eb a   eb d                     wb a   nb d
PEAK HR START TIME :           445 PM                                                                                                                   TOTAL

       PEAK HR VOL :       0            0           0     12           0        49            79      780         0         0       474         38      1432

   PEAK HR FACTOR :                  0.000                           0.726                            0.910                         0.895               0.927

          CONTROL : 1-Way Stop (SB)
                                                                                                 ITM Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                  Prepared by:




                                                                                                        National Data & Surveying Services




                                                                  Viejo Castilla Way and La Costa Ave , City of Carlsbad

                                                                                                            3HDN+RXU6XPPDU\

                Date:                     5/19/2011                                                  6RXWKERXQG$SSURDFK                                                    Project #:    CA11_4144_002

                    Day:                  Thursday                                       /DQHV                          




                                                                     9LHMR&DVWLOOD:D\
                                                                                          $0                                                         $0



                                                                                         1221                                                       1221                 $03HDN+RXU               700 AM

                                                                                                                                                                        12213HDN+RXU

                                                                                          30                                                         30                  303HDN+RXU               445 PM


                                    /D&RVWD$YH
                                    $0         1221         30                                                                                                     $0         1221       30     /DQHV




                                                                                                                                                                                                         :HVWERXQG$SSURDFK
(DVWERXQG$SSURDFK




                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                            


                                                                                                                  &21752/                                                                        


                                                                                                                 :D\6WRS6%                                                                      


                                                            

                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                             

                       /DQHV        $0         1221         30                                                                                                     $0         1221       30




                           &RXQW3HULRGV       6WDUW      (QG                              $0                                                         $0

                               $0            7:00 AM   9:00 AM
                                                                                         1221                                                       1221

                              1221          12:00 AM   12:00 AM
                                                                                          30                                                         30

                               30            4:00 PM   6:00 PM                                                                                      /DQHV


                                                                                                     1RUWKERXQG$SSURDFK



                                          7RWDO,QV2XWV                                                                                                      7RWDO9ROXPH3HU/HJ

                                                 1RUWK/HJ                                                                                                               1RUWK/HJ

                                                                   $0                                                                                                                   $0
                                                                  1221                                                                                                                  1221
                                                                   30                                                                                                                    30

    $0                1221          30                                                  (DVW/HJ                                              $0     1221     30                                (DVW/HJ

                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                  

                     :HVW/HJ                                       $0                   1221      30                                               :HVW/HJ                              $0     1221      30

                                    $0                                                                                                                       $0            

                                 1221                                                                                                                       1221           

                                    30                                                                                                                       30            

                                                6RXWK/HJ                                                                                                                6RXWK/HJ
                                                                   True Count
                                                              4401 Twain Ave, Suite 27
                                                                San Diego, CA 92120




                                                                                                         File Name    : 1175.01.LA COSTA AVE.ROMERIA ST
                                                                                                         Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                         Start Date   : 7/6/2011
                                                                                                         Page No      :1
                                                               Groups Printed- Vehicles
                           ROMERIA ST                    LA COSTA AVE                ROMERIA ST                              LA COSTA AVE
                           Southbound                     Westbound                   Northbound                               Eastbound
      Start Time    Left    Thru   Right   Peds   Left      Thru   Right   Peds    Left   Thru   Right     Peds       Left     Thru   Right   Peds   Int. Total
        07:00        2        0      1       0      1      131        0      0       6      0       2         0         1       39      2       0        185
        07:15        3        0      4       0      0      118        2      0      11      0       1         0         1       59      3       0        202
        07:30        4        0      4       0      0      146        1      0      14      0       1         0         0       58      5       0        233
        07:45        1        0      1       0      0      160        0      0      12      0       0         0         0       75      3       0        252
         Total      10        0     10       0      1      555        3      0      43      0       4         0         2      231     13       0        872

        08:00        5        0      2       0      0      107        0      0      13      0       0         0         2       66      1       0        196
        08:15        1        0      3       0      0      119        3      0       9      0       0         0         0       67      2       0        204
        08:30        1        0      3       0      1      126        1      0       9      0       3         0         0       79      4       0        227
        08:45        7        0      2       0      0      132        1      0      10      0       2         0         0      107      4       0        265
         Total      14        0     10       0      1      484        5      0      41      0       5         0         2      319     11       0        892

*** BREAK ***

        16:00         1       0       0      0      0      117       3       0       8      0      1          0         2      132      4       0       268
        16:15         1       0       2      0      2       79       1       0       7      0      4          0         0      154     10       0       260
        16:30         4       0       1      0      0       89       2       0       9      1      2          0         0      161      6       0       275
        16:45         1       1       5      0      0       85       5       0      14      0      4          0         3      151     14       0       283
         Total        7       1       8      0      2      370      11       0      38      1     11          0         5      598     34       0      1086

        17:00        6        2       0      0      1       87       5       0       6      0      5          0         1      162      9       0       284
        17:15        2        0       4      0      0      120       5       0       8      0      1          0         4      169      7       0       320
        17:30        2        0       1      0      1       78       5       0       8      1      6          0         2      160     12       0       276
        17:45        1        0       4      0      0       84       5       0      13      0      4          0         4      175     11       0       301
         Total      11        2       9      0      2      369      20       0      35      1     16          0        11      666     39       0      1181

   Grand Total       42        3     37      0      6     1778       39      0     157      2      36         0        20     1814      97      0      4031
    Apprch %       51.2      3.7   45.1      0    0.3      97.5     2.1      0    80.5      1    18.5         0         1      93.9      5      0
       Total %        1      0.1    0.9      0    0.1      44.1       1      0      3.9     0     0.9         0       0.5        45    2.4      0
                                                                                                          True Count
                                                                                                   4401 Twain Ave, Suite 27
                                                                                                     San Diego, CA 92120




                                                                                                                                                           File Name       : 1175.01.LA COSTA AVE.ROMERIA ST
                                                                                                                                                           Site Code       : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                           Start Date      : 7/6/2011
                                                                                                                                                           Page No         :2


                            ROMERIA ST                                                    LA COSTA AVE                                 ROMERIA ST                                  LA COSTA AVE
                            Southbound                                                      Westbound                                  Northbound                                    Eastbound
                                                                          App.                                      App.                                      App.                                                       App.     Int.
    Start Time     Left   Thru    Right                   Peds                     Left   Thru   Right   Peds                 Left   Thru   Right   Peds                  Left     Thru               Right       Peds
                                                                          Total                                     Total                                     Total                                                      Total   Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 to 11:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00
      08:00       5       0      2      0        7                                   0    107       0       0       107       13        0      0       0       13             2     66                       1       0    69     196
      08:15       1       0      3      0         4                                  0    119       3       0       122        9        0      0       0        9             0     67                       2       0    69     204
      08:30       1       0      3      0         4                                  1    126       1       0       128        9        0      3       0       12             0     79                       4       0    83     227
      08:45       7       0      2      0        9                                   0    132       1       0       133       10        0      2       0       12             0    107                       4       0   111     265
       Total
                 14       0     10      0       24                                   1    484       5       0       490       41        0      5       0       46             2    319                      11       0   332     892
     Volume
     % App.
               58.3       0 41.7        0                                          0.2    98.8      1       0                89.1       0   10.9       0                  0.6      96.1                     3.3      0
       Total
       PHF .500 .000 .833 .000                .667                                .250    .917   .417    .000       .921     .788    .000   .417    .000      .885     .250        .745               .688        .000   .748    .842

                                                                                                                  ROMERIA ST
                                                                                                          Out        In      Total
                                                                                                                7      24       31


                                                                                                            10     0          14    0
                                                                                                         Right Thru         Left Peds




                                                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                                                                     2
                                                   867




                                                                                                                                                                      Right Thru
                                                  Total




                                                                 Left




                                                                                                                                                                                    Out
                                                                                                                                                                                     338
                                                                                                                                                                          5




                                                                                                                                                                                        LA COSTA AVE
                                     LA COSTA AVE




                                                                                                                     North
                                                                        319
                                                                 Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                             484
                                           332
                                           In




                                                                                                                                                                                             In
                                                                                                                                                                                              490



                                                                                                         Peak Hour Begins at 08:00
                                                                    11




                                                                                                                                                                      Left




                                                                                                         Vehicles
                                                                                                                                                                          1
                                    535
                                   Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                                                                                                                                      Peds
                                                                 Peds




                                                                                                                                                                                                     828
                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                          Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                            41     0    5    0


                                                                                                            12        46       58
                                                                                                          Out       In      Total
                                                                                                                 ROMERIA ST
                                                                                                          True Count
                                                                                                   4401 Twain Ave, Suite 27
                                                                                                     San Diego, CA 92120




                                                                                                                                                           File Name       : 1175.01.LA COSTA AVE.ROMERIA ST
                                                                                                                                                           Site Code       : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                           Start Date      : 7/6/2011
                                                                                                                                                           Page No         :3

                            ROMERIA ST                                                    LA COSTA AVE                                 ROMERIA ST                                  LA COSTA AVE
                            Southbound                                                      Westbound                                  Northbound                                    Eastbound
                                                                          App.                                      App.                                      App.                                                       App.     Int.
    Start Time     Left   Thru    Right                   Peds                     Left   Thru   Right   Peds                 Left   Thru   Right   Peds                  Left     Thru               Right       Peds
                                                                          Total                                     Total                                     Total                                                      Total   Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 12:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 17:00
      17:00       6       2      0      0        8                                   1     87       5       0        93        6        0      5       0       11             1    162                       9       0   172      284
      17:15       2       0      4      0         6                                  0    120       5       0       125        8        0      1       0        9             4    169                       7       0   180      320
      17:30       2       0      1      0         3                                  1     78       5       0        84        8        1      6       0       15             2    160                      12       0   174      276
      17:45       1       0      4      0         5                                  0     84       5       0        89       13        0      4       0       17             4    175                      11       0   190      301
       Total
                11        2      9      0       22                                   2    369      20       0       391       35        1     16       0       52          11      666                      39       0   716     1181
     Volume
     % App.
                50      9.1 40.9        0                                          0.5    94.4    5.1       0                67.3     1.9   30.8       0                  1.5        93                     5.4      0
       Total
       PHF .458 .250 .563 .000                .688                                .500    .769   1.00    .000       .782     .673    .250   .667    .000      .765     .688        .951               .813        .000   .942    .923

                                                                                                                 ROMERIA ST
                                                                                                          Out       In      Total
                                                                                                            32        22       54


                                                                                                             9     2          11    0
                                                                                                         Right Thru         Left Peds




                                                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                                                                   11
                                                  1129




                                                                                                                                                                      Right Thru
                                                  Total




                                                                 Left




                                                                                                                                                                                    Out
                                                                                                                                                                         20


                                                                                                                                                                                     693

                                                                                                                                                                                        LA COSTA AVE
                                     LA COSTA AVE




                                                                                                                     North
                                                                        666
                                                                 Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                             369
                                           716
                                           In




                                                                                                                                                                                             In
                                                                                                                                                                                              391

                                                                                                         Peak Hour Begins at 17:00
                                                                    39




                                                                                                                                                                      Left




                                                                                                         Vehicles
                                                                                                                                                                          2
                                    413
                                   Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                    Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                     1084
                                                                                                                                                                      Peds
                                                                 Peds
                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                          Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                            35     1   16    0


                                                                                                            43        52       95
                                                                                                          Out       In      Total
                                                                                                                 ROMERIA ST
                                                                   True Count
                                                               4401 Twain Ave, Suite 27
                                                                 San Diego, CA 92120




                                                                                                         File Name    : 1175.02.LA COSTA AVE.CADENCIA ST
                                                                                                         Site Code    : 00000000
                                                                                                         Start Date   : 7/6/2011
                                                                                                         Page No      :1
                                                                Groups Printed- Vehicles
                           CADENCIA ST                    LA COSTA AVE                CADENCIA ST                             LA COSTA AVE
                            Southbound                     Westbound                   Northbound                               Eastbound
      Start Time    Left     Thru   Right   Peds   Left     Thru   Right   Peds    Left   Thru   Right      Peds       Left     Thru   Right   Peds   Int. Total
        07:00         9        0      10      0      2      102      4       0       0       0     2           0         3       44       1      0        177
        07:15         9        0      19      0      0       90      3       0       3       0     2           0         4       54       0      0        184
        07:30         7        1      23      0      1      100      3       0       2       0     5           0         5       59       0      0        206
        07:45         6        0      29      0      2      130      1       0       2       2     5           0         5       74       0      0        256
         Total       31        1      81      0      5      422     11       0       7       2    14           0        17      231       1      0        823

        08:00         7        0      23      0     2        72      5       0       0       1     6           0         8       63       2      0        189
        08:15         7        0      16      0     0        94      6       0       0       1     3           0         6       61       1      0        195
        08:30        11        1      23      0     6        99      1       0       1       1     2           0         6       81       1      0        233
        08:45        16        1      21      0     2        93      9       0       3       0     3           0        12       98       0      0        258
         Total       41        2      83      0    10       358     21       0       4       3    14           0        32      303       4      0        875

*** BREAK ***

        16:00         6        0      13      0     3        88     17       0       1       0      1          0         8      109      1       0        247
        16:15         8        2      12      0     4        66      9       0       0       4      4          0        13      127      4       0        253
        16:30         8        0      13      0     6        72      6       0       2       2      1          0        13      110      2       0        235
        16:45        12        4      11      0     2        68      9       0       1       2      3          0        14      123      4       0        253
         Total       34        6      49      0    15       294     41       0       4       8      9          0        48      469     11       0        988

        17:00        10        3      11      0     6        64     11       0       3       0     8           0        16      135      1       0       268
        17:15        10        2      15      0     4       108     13       0       4       0     2           0        16      118      3       0       295
        17:30         5        1       6      0     1        75     15       0       0       1     5           0        16      130      5       0       260
        17:45         8        2      12      0     3        60      9       0       1       3     5           0        14      109      4       0       230
         Total       33        8      44      0    14       307     48       0       8       4    20           0        62      492     13       0      1053

   Grand Total      139       17     257      0     44     1381    121       0      23      17     57          0       159     1495      29      0      3739
    Apprch %       33.7      4.1    62.2      0    2.8      89.3    7.8      0    23.7    17.5   58.8          0        9.4     88.8    1.7      0
       Total %       3.7     0.5      6.9     0    1.2      36.9    3.2      0     0.6     0.5    1.5          0        4.3       40    0.8      0
                                                                                                          True Count
                                                                                                   4401 Twain Ave, Suite 27
                                                                                                     San Diego, CA 92120




                                                                                                                                                       File Name     : 1175.02.LA COSTA AVE.CADENCIA ST
                                                                                                                                                       Site Code     : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                       Start Date    : 7/6/2011
                                                                                                                                                       Page No       :2


                           CADENCIA ST                                                    LA COSTA AVE                                CADENCIA ST                                LA COSTA AVE
                            Southbound                                                      Westbound                                  Northbound                                  Eastbound
                                                                          App.                                      App.                                   App.                                                        App.     Int.
    Start Time     Left   Thru    Right                   Peds                     Left   Thru   Right   Peds                 Left   Thru   Right   Peds                Left     Thru               Right       Peds
                                                                          Total                                     Total                                  Total                                                       Total   Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 07:00 to 11:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 08:00
      08:00       7       0     23      0       30                                   2     72       5       0        79         0       1      6       0      7           8        63                      2       0    73     189
      08:15       7       0     16      0       23                                   0     94       6       0       100         0       1      3       0      4           6        61                      1       0    68     195
      08:30      11       1     23      0       35                                   6     99       1       0       106         1       1      2       0      4           6        81                      1       0    88     233
      08:45      16       1     21      0       38                                   2     93       9       0       104         3       0      3       0      6          12        98                      0       0   110     258
       Total
                 41       2     83      0      126                                 10     358      21       0       389         4       3     14       0    21           32      303                       4       0   339     875
     Volume
     % App.
               32.5     1.6 65.9        0                                          2.6     92     5.4       0                 19     14.3   66.7       0                9.4      89.4                     1.2      0
       Total
       PHF .641 .500 .902 .000                .829                                .417    .904   .583    .000       .917     .333    .750   .583    .000   .750      .667        .773               .500        .000   .770    .848

                                                                                                              CADENCIA ST
                                                                                                          Out     In     Total
                                                                                                            56     126     182


                                                                                                            83     2          41    0
                                                                                                         Right Thru         Left Peds




                                                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                                                                   32
                                                   784




                                                                                                                                                                    Right Thru
                                                  Total




                                                                 Left




                                                                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                                                                                                                                       21


                                                                                                                                                                                   358

                                                                                                                                                                                      LA COSTA AVE
                                     LA COSTA AVE




                                                                                                                     North
                                                                        303
                                                                 Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                           358
                                           339
                                           In




                                                                                                                                                                                           In
                                                                                                                                                                                            389



                                                                                                         Peak Hour Begins at 08:00
                                                                     4




                                                                                                                                                                    Left
                                                                                                                                                                      10




                                                                                                         Vehicles
                                    445
                                   Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                  Total
                                                                                                                                                                    Peds
                                                                 Peds




                                                                                                                                                                                                   747
                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                                          Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                              4    3   14    0


                                                                                                            16      21      37
                                                                                                          Out     In     Total
                                                                                                              CADENCIA ST
                                                                                                          True Count
                                                                                                   4401 Twain Ave, Suite 27
                                                                                                     San Diego, CA 92120




                                                                                                                                                       File Name     : 1175.02.LA COSTA AVE.CADENCIA ST
                                                                                                                                                       Site Code     : 00000000
                                                                                                                                                       Start Date    : 7/6/2011
                                                                                                                                                       Page No       :3

                           CADENCIA ST                                                    LA COSTA AVE                                CADENCIA ST                                LA COSTA AVE
                            Southbound                                                      Westbound                                  Northbound                                  Eastbound
                                                                          App.                                      App.                                   App.                                                        App.     Int.
    Start Time     Left   Thru    Right                   Peds                     Left   Thru   Right   Peds                 Left   Thru   Right   Peds                Left     Thru               Right       Peds
                                                                          Total                                     Total                                  Total                                                       Total   Total
Peak Hour Analysis From 12:00 to 17:45 - Peak 1 of 1
Peak Hour for Entire Intersection Begins at 16:45
      16:45      12       4     11      0       27                                   2     68       9       0        79         1       2      3       0     6           14      123                       4       0   141      253
      17:00      10       3     11      0       24                                   6     64      11       0        81         3       0      8       0    11           16      135                       1       0   152      268
      17:15      10       2     15      0       27                                   4    108      13       0       125         4       0      2       0     6           16      118                       3       0   137      295
      17:30       5       1      6      0       12                                   1     75      15       0        91         0       1      5       0     6           16      130                       5       0   151      260
       Total
                 37      10     43      0       90                                 13     315      48       0       376         8       3     18       0    29           62      506                      13       0   581     1076
     Volume
     % App.
               41.1 11.1 47.8           0                                          3.5    83.8   12.8       0                27.6    10.3   62.1       0             10.7        87.1                     2.2      0
       Total
       PHF .771 .625 .717 .000                .833                                .542    .729   .800    .000       .752     .500    .375   .563    .000   .659      .969        .937               .650        .000   .956    .912

                                                                                                              CADENCIA ST
                                                                                                          Out     In     Total
                                                                                                           113      90     203


                                                                                                            43    10          37    0
                                                                                                         Right Thru         Left Peds




                                                                                                         Peak Hour Data
                                                                   62
                                                   947




                                                                                                                                                                    Right Thru
                                                  Total




                                                                 Left




                                                                                                                                                                                  Out
                                                                                                                                                                       48


                                                                                                                                                                                   561

                                                                                                                                                                                      LA COSTA AVE
                                     LA COSTA AVE




                                                                                                                     North
                                                                        506
                                                                 Right Thru




                                                                                                                                                                           315
                                           581
                                           In




                                                                                                                                                                                           In
                                                                                                                                                                                            376

                                                                                                         Peak Hour Begins at 16:45
                                                                    13




                                                                                                                                                                    Left
                                                                                                                                                                      13




                                                                                                         Vehicles
                                    366
                                   Out




                                                                                                                                                                                                  Total
                                                                                                                                                                    Peds
                                                                 Peds




                                                                                                                                                                                                   937
                                                                    0




                                                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                                          Left Thru Right Peds
                                                                                                              8    3   18    0


                                                                                                            36      29      65
                                                                                                          Out     In     Total
                                                                                                              CADENCIA ST
                                                                                                ITM Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                      Prepared by:




                                                                                                           National Data & Surveying Services




                                                                       Calle Madero and La Costa Ave , City of Carlsbad

                                                                                                               Peak Hour Summary

                     Date:                   5/19/2011                                                 Southbound Approach                                                         Project #:     CA11_4144_003

                     Day:                    Thursday                                   Lanes      0             0         0

                                                                                                                                                0




                                                                        Calle Madero
                                                                                         AM        0             0         0                              AM



                                                                                        NOON       0             0         0                    0        NOON                    AM Peak Hour              700 AM
                                               N                                                                                                                                NOON Peak Hour

                                                                                         PM        0             0         0                    0         PM                     PM Peak Hour              445 PM


                                       La Costa Ave
                                      AM          NOON          PM                                                                                                        AM           NOON      PM     Lanes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Westbound Approach
Eastbound Approach




                                                                                                                                                                           0            0         0       0
                                      864              0        510


                                                                                                                      CONTROL                                             827           0        491      2


                             0          0              0          0                                                  1-Way Stop (NB)                                      19            0         8       0


                             2        450              0        756

                                                                                                                                                                          463           0        764
                             0        26               0        32

                        Lanes         AM          NOON          PM                                                                                                        AM           NOON      PM




                             Count Periods       Start       End                                   45                      37          0         13
                                                                                         AM                                                               AM

                                 AM             7:00 AM    9:00 AM
                                                                                        NOON           0                   0           0            0    NOON

                                 NOON          12:00 AM    12:00 AM
                                                                                         PM        40                      19          0            8     PM

                                 PM             4:00 PM    6:00 PM                                                         0           1            0    Lanes


                                                                                                       Northbound Approach



                                             Total Ins & Outs                                                                                                    Total Volume Per Leg
                                                    North Leg                                                                                                                   North Leg

                                                   0          0       AM                                                                                                           0             AM
                                                   0          0       NOON                                                                                                         0            NOON
                                                   0          0       PM                                                                                                           0             PM

   AM                   NOON          PM                                               East Leg                                                 AM       NOON      PM                                  East Leg

  864                        0        510                             846                 0       499
                                                                                                                                                1340       0       1298                         1309      0       1263
  476                        0        788                             463                 0       764

                      West Leg                                        AM                NOON      PM                                                    West Leg                                 AM     NOON      PM

                                      AM          45         50                                                                                                    AM              95

                                    NOON           0          0                                                                                                  NOON              0

                                      PM          40         27                                                                                                    PM              67

                                                   South Leg                                                                                                                    South Leg
                                                                                                ITM Peak Hour Summary
                                                                                                                      Prepared by:




                                                                                                           National Data & Surveying Services




                                                                        Gibraltar St and La Costa Ave , City of Carlsbad

                                                                                                               Peak Hour Summary

                     Date:                   5/19/2011                                                 Southbound Approach                                                         Project #:     CA11_4144_004

                     Day:                    Thursday                                   Lanes      0             1         0

                                                                                         AM       52             0         2                    10        AM




                                                                        Gibraltar St
                                                                                        NOON       0             0         0                    0        NOON                    AM Peak Hour              700 AM
                                               N                                                                                                                                NOON Peak Hour

                                                                                         PM       26             0         1                    39        PM                     PM Peak Hour              445 PM


                                       La Costa Ave
                                      AM          NOON          PM                                                                                                        AM           NOON      PM     Lanes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Westbound Approach
Eastbound Approach




                                                                                                                                                                           3            0         6       0
                                      846              0        501


                                                                                                                      CONTROL                                             794           0        475      2


                             0          7              0        33                                                   1-Way Stop (SB)                                       0            0         0       0


                             2        457              0        731

                                                                                                                                                                          459           0        732
                             0          0              0          0

                        Lanes         AM          NOON          PM                                                                                                        AM           NOON      PM




                             Count Periods       Start       End                                       0                   0           0            0
                                                                                         AM                                                               AM

                                 AM             7:00 AM    9:00 AM
                                                                                        NOON           0                   0           0            0    NOON

                                 NOON          12:00 AM    12:00 AM
                                                                                         PM            0                   0           0            0     PM

                                 PM             4:00 PM    6:00 PM                                                         0           0            0    Lanes


                                                                                                       Northbound Approach



                                             Total Ins & Outs                                                                                                    Total Volume Per Leg
                                                    North Leg                                                                                                                   North Leg

                                                  54         10       AM                                                                                                           64            AM
                                                   0          0       NOON                                                                                                         0            NOON
                                                  27         39       PM                                                                                                           66            PM

   AM                   NOON          PM                                               East Leg                                                 AM       NOON      PM                                  East Leg

  846                        0        501                             797                 0       481
                                                                                                                                                1310       0       1265                         1256      0       1213
  464                        0        764                             459                 0       732

                      West Leg                                        AM                NOON      PM                                                    West Leg                                 AM     NOON      PM

                                      AM           0          0                                                                                                    AM              0

                                    NOON           0          0                                                                                                  NOON              0

                                      PM           0          0                                                                                                    PM              0

                                                   South Leg                                                                                                                    South Leg
Attachment C:
   Concept
 Attachment D:
Analysis Printouts
Existing Conditions
Intersection Capacity Utilization
3: La Costa Avenue & Nueva Castilla Way                                              Timing Plan: AM



Movement                 EBT      EBR    WBL     WBT     NBL     NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)             423       19      16     939      42      27
Pedestrians
Ped Button
Pedestrian Timing (s)
Free Right                         No                              No
Ideal Flow              1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Lost Time (s)             4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Minimum Green (s)         4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Refr Cycle Length (s)    120
Volume Combined (vph) 423           19      16    939       42      27
Lane Utilization Factor  0.95     1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00
Turning Factor (vph)     1.00     0.85    0.95    1.00    0.95    0.85
Saturated Flow (vph)    3618     1615    1805    3618    1805    1615
Ped Intf Time (s)         0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Pedestrian Frequency (%)0.00                      0.00    0.00
Protected Option Allowed Yes                      Yes      No
Reference Time (s)       14.0      1.4    1.1     31.1            2.0
Adj Reference Time (s) 18.0        8.0    8.0     35.1            8.0
Permitted Option
Adj Saturation A (vph) 1809              120     1809    120
Reference Time A (s)     14.0            16.0     31.1   41.9
Adj Saturation B (vph     NA              NA       NA     NA
Reference Time B (s)      NA              NA       NA     NA
Reference Time (s)       14.0                     31.1
Adj Reference Time (s) 18.0                       35.1
Split Option
Ref Time Combined (s) 14.0                1.1    31.1     2.8
Ref Time Seperate (s)    14.0             1.1    31.1     2.8
Reference Time (s)       14.0            31.1    31.1     2.8
Adj Reference Time (s) 18.0              35.1    35.1     8.0
Summary                         EB WB             NB       Combined
Protected Option (s)              35.1            NA
Permitted Option (s)              35.1            Err
Split Option (s)                  53.2            8.0
Minimum (s)                       35.1            8.0            43.1
Right Turns                       EBR    NBR
Adj Reference Time (s)             8.0    8.0
Cross Thru Ref Time (s)            0.0   18.0
Oncoming Left Ref Time (s)         8.0    0.0
Combined (s)                      16.0   26.0
Intersection Summary
Intersection Capacity Utilization   36.0%        ICU Level of Service            A
Reference Times and Phasing Options do not represent an optimized timing plan.




Existing AM without Project                                                          Synchro 6 Report
KOA Corporation. Formerly                                                                     Page 1
Katz, Okitsu & Associates
Intersection Capacity Utilization
4: La Costa Avenue & Viejo Castilla Wy                                               Timing Plan: AM



Movement                 EBL      EBT    WBT     WBR     SBL     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)               21     431     853      15      44     102
Pedestrians
Ped Button
Pedestrian Timing (s)
Free Right                                         No              No
Ideal Flow              1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Lost Time (s)             4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Minimum Green (s)         5.0      8.0     8.0     8.0     5.0     5.0
Refr Cycle Length (s)    120
Volume Combined (vph)      21     431     853       15      44    102
Lane Utilization Factor  1.00     0.95    0.95    1.00    1.00    1.00
Turning Factor (vph)     0.95     1.00    1.00    0.85    0.95    0.85
Saturated Flow (vph)    1805     3618    3618    1615    1805    1615
Ped Intf Time (s)         0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Pedestrian Frequency (%)          0.00    0.00            0.00
Protected Option Allowed          Yes     Yes              No
Reference Time (s)        1.4     14.3    28.3    1.1             7.6
Adj Reference Time (s)    9.0     18.3    32.3   12.0            11.6
Permitted Option
Adj Saturation A (vph)   120     1809    1809            120
Reference Time A (s)     20.9     14.3    28.3           43.9
Adj Saturation B (vph     NA       NA      NA             NA
Reference Time B (s)      NA       NA      NA             NA
Reference Time (s)                20.9    28.3
Adj Reference Time (s)            24.9    32.3
Split Option
Ref Time Combined (s)     1.4     14.3   28.3             2.9
Ref Time Seperate (s)     1.4     14.3   28.3             2.9
Reference Time (s)       14.3     14.3   28.3             2.9
Adj Reference Time (s) 18.3       18.3   32.3             9.0
Summary                         EB WB             SB       Combined
Protected Option (s)              41.3            NA
Permitted Option (s)              32.3            Err
Split Option (s)                  50.6            9.0
Minimum (s)                       32.3            9.0            41.3
Right Turns                      WBR     SBR
Adj Reference Time (s)           12.0    11.6
Cross Thru Ref Time (s)           0.0    32.3
Oncoming Left Ref Time (s)        9.0     0.0
Combined (s)                     21.0    43.9
Intersection Summary
Intersection Capacity Utilization   36.6%        ICU Level of Service            A
Reference Times and Phasing Options do not represent an optimized timing plan.




Existing AM without Project                                                          Synchro 6 Report
KOA Corporation. Formerly                                                                     Page 2
Katz, Okitsu & Associates
Intersection Capacity Utilization
7: La Costa Avenue & Romeria St                                                                      Timing Plan: AM



Movement                 EBL      EBT    EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                2     319      11        1     484       5      41       0       5      14       0      10
Pedestrians
Ped Button
Pedestrian Timing (s)
Free Right                                 No                       No                      No                      No
Ideal Flow              1900     1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Lost Time (s)             4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Minimum Green (s)         5.0      8.0     8.0      5.0     8.0     8.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0
Refr Cycle Length (s)    120
Volume Combined (vph)       2     319       11        1    484        5      0       41       5      0       14      10
Lane Utilization Factor  1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00
Turning Factor (vph)     0.95     1.00    0.85     0.95    1.00    0.85   0.95     0.95    0.85   0.95     0.95    0.85
Saturated Flow (vph)    1805     1900    1615     1805    3618    1615       0    1805    1615       0    1805    1615
Ped Intf Time (s)         0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
Pedestrian Frequency (%)          0.00                     0.00                    0.00                    0.00
Protected Option Allowed          Yes                      Yes                      No                      No
Reference Time (s)        0.1     20.1    0.8      0.1     16.1    0.4                     0.4                     0.7
Adj Reference Time (s)    9.0     24.1   12.0      9.0     20.1   12.0                     9.0                     9.0
Permitted Option
Adj Saturation A (vph)   120     1900              120    1809               0    120                0    120
Reference Time A (s)      2.0     20.1              1.0    16.1            0.0    40.9             0.0    14.0
Adj Saturation B (vph     NA       NA               NA      NA               0       0               0       0
Reference Time B (s)      NA       NA               NA      NA            10.7    10.7             8.9     8.9
Reference Time (s)                20.1                     16.1                   10.7                     8.9
Adj Reference Time (s)            24.1                     20.1                   14.7                    12.9
Split Option
Ref Time Combined (s)     0.1     20.1             0.1    16.1             0.0     2.7             0.0     0.9
Ref Time Seperate (s)     0.1     20.1             0.1    16.1             2.7     0.0             0.9     0.0
Reference Time (s)       20.1     20.1            16.1    16.1             2.7     2.7             0.9     0.9
Adj Reference Time (s) 24.1       24.1            20.1    20.1             9.0     9.0             9.0     9.0
Summary                         EB WB            NB SB      Combined
Protected Option (s)              33.1              NA
Permitted Option (s)              24.1            14.7
Split Option (s)                  44.2            18.0
Minimum (s)                       24.1            14.7            38.9
Right Turns                       EBR    WBR      NBR     SBR
Adj Reference Time (s)            12.0   12.0      9.0     9.0
Cross Thru Ref Time (s)            9.0    9.0     24.1    20.1
Oncoming Left Ref Time (s)         9.0    9.0      9.0     9.0
Combined (s)                      30.0   30.0     42.1    38.1
Intersection Summary
Intersection Capacity Utilization   35.1%        ICU Level of Service                        A
Reference Times and Phasing Options do not represent an optimized timing plan.




Existing AM without Project                                                                         Synchro 6 Report
KOA Corporation. Formerly                                                                                    Page 3
Katz, Okitsu & Associates
Intersection Capacity Utilization
9: La Costa Avenue & Cadencia St                                                                     Timing Plan: AM



Movement                 EBL      EBT    EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)               32     303       4       10     358      21       4       3      14      41       2      83
Pedestrians
Ped Button
Pedestrian Timing (s)
Free Right                                 No                       No                      No                      No
Ideal Flow              1900     1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Lost Time (s)             4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Minimum Green (s)         5.0      8.0     8.0      5.0     8.0     8.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0
Refr Cycle Length (s)    120
Volume Combined (vph)      32     303        4       10    358       21      0        7      14      0       43      83
Lane Utilization Factor  1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00
Turning Factor (vph)     0.95     1.00    0.85     0.95    1.00    0.85   0.95     0.97    0.85   0.95     0.95    0.85
Saturated Flow (vph)    1805     1900    1615     1805    3618    1615       0    1846    1615       0    1809    1615
Ped Intf Time (s)         0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
Pedestrian Frequency (%)          0.00                     0.00                    0.00                    0.00
Protected Option Allowed          Yes                      Yes                      No                      No
Reference Time (s)        2.1     19.1    0.3      0.7     11.9    1.6                     1.0                     6.2
Adj Reference Time (s)    9.0     23.1   12.0      9.0     15.9   12.0                     9.0                    10.2
Permitted Option
Adj Saturation A (vph)   120     1900             120     1809               0     188               0    124
Reference Time A (s)     31.9     19.1            10.0     11.9            0.0      4.5            0.0    41.5
Adj Saturation B (vph     NA       NA              NA       NA               0        0              0       0
Reference Time B (s)      NA       NA              NA       NA             8.3      8.5           10.7    10.9
Reference Time (s)                31.9                     11.9                     4.5                   10.9
Adj Reference Time (s)            35.9                     15.9                     9.0                   14.9
Split Option
Ref Time Combined (s)     2.1     19.1             0.7    11.9             0.0     0.5             0.0     2.9
Ref Time Seperate (s)     2.1     19.1             0.7    11.9             0.3     0.2             2.7     0.1
Reference Time (s)       19.1     19.1            11.9    11.9             0.5     0.5             2.9     2.9
Adj Reference Time (s) 23.1       23.1            15.9    15.9             9.0     9.0             9.0     9.0
Summary                         EB WB            NB SB      Combined
Protected Option (s)              32.1              NA
Permitted Option (s)              35.9            14.9
Split Option (s)                  39.0            18.0
Minimum (s)                       32.1            14.9            47.0
Right Turns                       EBR    WBR      NBR     SBR
Adj Reference Time (s)            12.0   12.0      9.0    10.2
Cross Thru Ref Time (s)            9.0    9.0     23.1    15.9
Oncoming Left Ref Time (s)         9.0    9.0      9.0     9.0
Combined (s)                      30.0   30.0     41.1    35.0
Intersection Summary
Intersection Capacity Utilization   39.2%        ICU Level of Service                        A
Reference Times and Phasing Options do not represent an optimized timing plan.




Existing AM without Project                                                                         Synchro 6 Report
KOA Corporation. Formerly                                                                                    Page 4
Katz, Okitsu & Associates
Intersection Capacity Utilization
3: La Costa Avenue & Nueva Castilla Way                                              Timing Plan: PM



Movement                 EBT      EBR    WBL     WBT     NBL     NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)             849       68      12     516      26      11
Pedestrians
Ped Button
Pedestrian Timing (s)
Free Right                         No                              No
Ideal Flow              1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Lost Time (s)             4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Minimum Green (s)         4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Refr Cycle Length (s)    120
Volume Combined (vph) 849           68      12    516       26      11
Lane Utilization Factor  0.95     1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00
Turning Factor (vph)     1.00     0.85    0.95    1.00    0.95    0.85
Saturated Flow (vph)    3618     1615    1805    3618    1805    1615
Ped Intf Time (s)         0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Pedestrian Frequency (%)0.00                      0.00    0.00
Protected Option Allowed Yes                      Yes      No
Reference Time (s)       28.2      5.1    0.8     17.1            0.8
Adj Reference Time (s) 32.2        9.1    8.0     21.1            8.0
Permitted Option
Adj Saturation A (vph) 1809              120     1809    120
Reference Time A (s)     28.2            12.0     17.1   25.9
Adj Saturation B (vph     NA              NA       NA     NA
Reference Time B (s)      NA              NA       NA     NA
Reference Time (s)       28.2                     17.1
Adj Reference Time (s) 32.2                       21.1
Split Option
Ref Time Combined (s) 28.2                0.8    17.1     1.7
Ref Time Seperate (s)    28.2             0.8    17.1     1.7
Reference Time (s)       28.2            17.1    17.1     1.7
Adj Reference Time (s) 32.2              21.1    21.1     8.0
Summary                         EB WB             NB       Combined
Protected Option (s)              40.2            NA
Permitted Option (s)              32.2            Err
Split Option (s)                  53.3            8.0
Minimum (s)                       32.2            8.0            40.2
Right Turns                       EBR    NBR
Adj Reference Time (s)             9.1    8.0
Cross Thru Ref Time (s)            0.0   32.2
Oncoming Left Ref Time (s)         8.0    0.0
Combined (s)                      17.1   40.2
Intersection Summary
Intersection Capacity Utilization   33.5%        ICU Level of Service            A
Reference Times and Phasing Options do not represent an optimized timing plan.




Existing PM without Project                                                          Synchro 6 Report
KOA Corporation. Formerly                                                                     Page 1
Katz, Okitsu & Associates
Intersection Capacity Utilization
4: La Costa Avenue & Viejo Castilla Wy                                               Timing Plan: PM



Movement                 EBL      EBT    WBT     WBR     SBL     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)               79     780     474      38      12      49
Pedestrians
Ped Button
Pedestrian Timing (s)
Free Right                                         No              No
Ideal Flow              1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Lost Time (s)             4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Minimum Green (s)         5.0      8.0     8.0     8.0     5.0     5.0
Refr Cycle Length (s)    120
Volume Combined (vph)      79     780     474       38      12      49
Lane Utilization Factor  1.00     0.95    0.95    1.00    1.00    1.00
Turning Factor (vph)     0.95     1.00    1.00    0.85    0.95    0.85
Saturated Flow (vph)    1805     3618    3618    1615    1805    1615
Ped Intf Time (s)         0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Pedestrian Frequency (%)          0.00    0.00            0.00
Protected Option Allowed          Yes     Yes              No
Reference Time (s)        5.3     25.9    15.7    2.8             3.6
Adj Reference Time (s)    9.3     29.9    19.7   12.0             9.0
Permitted Option
Adj Saturation A (vph)   120     1809    1809            120
Reference Time A (s)     78.8     25.9    15.7           12.0
Adj Saturation B (vph     NA       NA      NA             NA
Reference Time B (s)      NA       NA      NA             NA
Reference Time (s)                78.8    15.7
Adj Reference Time (s)            82.8    19.7
Split Option
Ref Time Combined (s)     5.3     25.9   15.7             0.8
Ref Time Seperate (s)     5.3     25.9   15.7             0.8
Reference Time (s)       25.9     25.9   15.7             0.8
Adj Reference Time (s) 29.9       29.9   19.7             9.0
Summary                         EB WB             SB       Combined
Protected Option (s)              29.9            NA
Permitted Option (s)              82.8            Err
Split Option (s)                  49.6            9.0
Minimum (s)                       29.9            9.0            38.9
Right Turns                      WBR     SBR
Adj Reference Time (s)           12.0     9.0
Cross Thru Ref Time (s)           0.0    19.7
Oncoming Left Ref Time (s)        9.3     0.0
Combined (s)                     21.3    28.7
Intersection Summary
Intersection Capacity Utilization   32.4%        ICU Level of Service            A
Reference Times and Phasing Options do not represent an optimized timing plan.




Existing PM without Project                                                          Synchro 6 Report
KOA Corporation. Formerly                                                                     Page 2
Katz, Okitsu & Associates
Intersection Capacity Utilization
7: La Costa Avenue & Romeria St                                                                      Timing Plan: PM



Movement                 EBL      EBT    EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)               11     666      39        2     369      20      35       1      16      11       2       9
Pedestrians
Ped Button
Pedestrian Timing (s)
Free Right                                 No                       No                      No                      No
Ideal Flow              1900     1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Lost Time (s)             4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Minimum Green (s)         5.0      8.0     8.0      5.0     8.0     8.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0
Refr Cycle Length (s)    120
Volume Combined (vph)      11     666       39        2    369       20      0       36      16      0       13       9
Lane Utilization Factor  1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00
Turning Factor (vph)     0.95     1.00    0.85     0.95    1.00    0.85   0.95     0.95    0.85   0.95     0.96    0.85
Saturated Flow (vph)    1805     1900    1615     1805    3618    1615       0    1808    1615       0    1820    1615
Ped Intf Time (s)         0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
Pedestrian Frequency (%)          0.00                     0.00                    0.00                    0.00
Protected Option Allowed          Yes                      Yes                      No                      No
Reference Time (s)        0.7     42.1    2.9      0.1     12.2    1.5                     1.2                     0.7
Adj Reference Time (s)    9.0     46.1   12.0      9.0     16.2   12.0                     9.0                     9.0
Permitted Option
Adj Saturation A (vph)   120     1900              120    1809               0    123                0    136
Reference Time A (s)     11.0     42.1              2.0    12.2            0.0    35.2             0.0    11.5
Adj Saturation B (vph     NA       NA               NA      NA               0       0               0       0
Reference Time B (s)      NA       NA               NA      NA            10.3    10.4             8.7     8.9
Reference Time (s)                42.1                     12.2                   10.4                     8.9
Adj Reference Time (s)            46.1                     16.2                   14.4                    12.9
Split Option
Ref Time Combined (s)     0.7     42.1             0.1    12.2             0.0     2.4             0.0     0.9
Ref Time Seperate (s)     0.7     42.1             0.1    12.2             2.3     0.1             0.7     0.1
Reference Time (s)       42.1     42.1            12.2    12.2             2.4     2.4             0.9     0.9
Adj Reference Time (s) 46.1       46.1            16.2    16.2             9.0     9.0             9.0     9.0
Summary                         EB WB            NB SB      Combined
Protected Option (s)              55.1              NA
Permitted Option (s)              46.1            14.4
Split Option (s)                  62.3            18.0
Minimum (s)                       46.1            14.4            60.5
Right Turns                       EBR    WBR      NBR     SBR
Adj Reference Time (s)            12.0   12.0      9.0     9.0
Cross Thru Ref Time (s)            9.0    9.0     46.1    16.2
Oncoming Left Ref Time (s)         9.0    9.0      9.0     9.0
Combined (s)                      30.0   30.0     64.1    34.2
Intersection Summary
Intersection Capacity Utilization   53.4%        ICU Level of Service                        A
Reference Times and Phasing Options do not represent an optimized timing plan.




Existing PM without Project                                                                         Synchro 6 Report
KOA Corporation. Formerly                                                                                    Page 3
Katz, Okitsu & Associates
Intersection Capacity Utilization
9: La Costa Avenue & Cadencia St                                                                     Timing Plan: PM



Movement                 EBL      EBT    EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)               62     506      13       13     315      48       8       3      18      37      10      43
Pedestrians
Ped Button
Pedestrian Timing (s)
Free Right                                 No                       No                      No                      No
Ideal Flow              1900     1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Lost Time (s)             4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Minimum Green (s)         5.0      8.0     8.0      5.0     8.0     8.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0
Refr Cycle Length (s)    120
Volume Combined (vph)      62     506       13       13    315       48      0       11      18      0       47      43
Lane Utilization Factor  1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00
Turning Factor (vph)     0.95     1.00    0.85     0.95    1.00    0.85   0.95     0.96    0.85   0.95     0.96    0.85
Saturated Flow (vph)    1805     1900    1615     1805    3618    1615       0    1831    1615       0    1825    1615
Ped Intf Time (s)         0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
Pedestrian Frequency (%)          0.00                     0.00                    0.00                    0.00
Protected Option Allowed          Yes                      Yes                      No                      No
Reference Time (s)        4.1     32.0    1.0      0.9     10.4    3.6                     1.3                     3.2
Adj Reference Time (s)    9.0     36.0   12.0      9.0     14.4   12.0                     9.0                     9.0
Permitted Option
Adj Saturation A (vph)   120     1900             120     1809               0    153                0    144
Reference Time A (s)     61.8     32.0            13.0     10.4            0.0     8.6             0.0    39.2
Adj Saturation B (vph     NA       NA              NA       NA               0       0               0       0
Reference Time B (s)      NA       NA              NA       NA             8.5     8.7            10.5    11.1
Reference Time (s)                61.8                     13.0                    8.6                    11.1
Adj Reference Time (s)            65.8                     17.0                   12.6                    15.1
Split Option
Ref Time Combined (s)     4.1     32.0             0.9    10.4             0.0     0.7             0.0     3.1
Ref Time Seperate (s)     4.1     32.0             0.9    10.4             0.5     0.2             2.5     0.6
Reference Time (s)       32.0     32.0            10.4    10.4             0.7     0.7             3.1     3.1
Adj Reference Time (s) 36.0       36.0            14.4    14.4             9.0     9.0             9.0     9.0
Summary                         EB WB            NB SB      Combined
Protected Option (s)              45.0              NA
Permitted Option (s)              65.8            15.1
Split Option (s)                  50.4            18.0
Minimum (s)                       45.0            15.1            60.0
Right Turns                       EBR    WBR      NBR     SBR
Adj Reference Time (s)            12.0   12.0      9.0     9.0
Cross Thru Ref Time (s)            9.0    9.0     36.0    14.4
Oncoming Left Ref Time (s)         9.0    9.0      9.0     9.0
Combined (s)                      30.0   30.0     54.0    32.4
Intersection Summary
Intersection Capacity Utilization   50.0%        ICU Level of Service                        A
Reference Times and Phasing Options do not represent an optimized timing plan.




Existing PM without Project                                                                         Synchro 6 Report
KOA Corporation. Formerly                                                                                    Page 4
Katz, Okitsu & Associates
Input Volumes
Total flow rates as given by the user (veh/60 min)

La Costa Ave Nuevo Castilla Way - Ex AM With Project

                                                                                  Intersection
                                                                                      Type
                                                                                    Roundabout



                                                                                    No color
                                                                                   code in this
                                                                                     display




Site: Ex AM With Project
N:\KOA11\B14055 La Costa Road Evaulation-Phase II\July 2011\LOS Analysis\Sidra\Nueva Castilla
Wy.aap
Processed Jul 08, 2011 11:06:28AM

A1620, KOA Corporation, Small Office
Produced by SIDRA Intersection 3.1.061208.34
Copyright 2000-2006 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd
www.sidrasolutions.com
Table R.0 - Roundabout Basic Parameters

 La Costa Ave   Nuevo Castilla Way
 Ex AM With Project
 Intersection ID: 1
 Roundabout

 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
                                             Circulating/Exiting Stream
  Cent Circ Insc No.of No.of Av.Ent --------------------------------
--------
 Island Width Diam. Circ. Entry Lane    Flow %HV Adjust. %Exit Cap.
O-D
  Diam              Lanes Lanes Width (veh/        Flow    Incl.
Constr. Factor
  (ft) (ft) (ft)                (ft)     h)        (pcu/h)       Effect
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00     17   0.0     17     0     N
0.998
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
 South: Nueva Castillo
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00    445   0.0    445     0     N
0.988
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
 East: E. La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00     44   0.0     44     0     N
0.993
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
Table S.15 - Capacity and Level of Service

 La Costa Ave   Nuevo Castilla Way
 Ex AM With Project
 Intersection ID: 1
 Roundabout

 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  Mov     Mov    Total Total     Deg.   Aver.   LOS Longest Queue
  ID      Typ    Flow    Cap.     of    Delay          95% Back
                 (veh   (veh     Satn                 (vehs) (ft)
                   /h)    /h)    (v/c) (sec)
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   2T T            445   1505   0.296     6.8    A      2.5     62
   2R R             20     68   0.294     7.6    A      2.5     62
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 South: Nueva Castillo
   3L L             44    562   0.078    14.2    A      0.5     13
   8R R             28    358   0.078    10.0    A      0.5     13
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 East: E. La Costa Ave
   1L L             17     26   0.654    12.3    B      9.6    241
   6T T            988   1487   0.664*    7.1    B      9.6    241
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  ALL VEHICLES:   1542          0.664            B      9.6    241
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
      Level of Service calculations are based on
      v/c ratio (ICU criteria),
      independent of the current delay definition used.
      For the criteria, refer to the "Level of Service" topic in the
      SIDRA Output Guide or the Output section of the on-line help.
   * Maximum v/c ratio, or critical green periods
   " Movement Level of service has been determined using adjacent lane
      v/c ratio rather than short lane v/c ratio (v/c=1.0)
Intersection Capacity Utilization
4: La Costa Avenue & Viejo Castilla Wy                                               Timing Plan: AM



Movement                 EBL      EBT    WBT     WBR     SBL     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)               21     431     853      15      44     102
Pedestrians
Ped Button
Pedestrian Timing (s)
Free Right                                         No              No
Ideal Flow              1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Lost Time (s)             4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Minimum Green (s)         5.0      8.0     8.0     8.0     5.0     5.0
Refr Cycle Length (s)    120
Volume Combined (vph)      21     431     853       15      44    102
Lane Utilization Factor  1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Turning Factor (vph)     0.95     1.00    1.00    0.85    0.95    0.85
Saturated Flow (vph)    1805     1900    1900    1615    1805    1615
Ped Intf Time (s)         0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Pedestrian Frequency (%)          0.00    0.00            0.00
Protected Option Allowed          Yes     Yes              No
Reference Time (s)        1.4     27.2    53.9    1.1             7.6
Adj Reference Time (s)    9.0     31.2    57.9   12.0            11.6
Permitted Option
Adj Saturation A (vph)   120     1900    1900            120
Reference Time A (s)     20.9     27.2    53.9           43.9
Adj Saturation B (vph     NA       NA      NA             NA
Reference Time B (s)      NA       NA      NA             NA
Reference Time (s)                27.2    53.9
Adj Reference Time (s)            31.2    57.9
Split Option
Ref Time Combined (s)     1.4     27.2   53.9             2.9
Ref Time Seperate (s)     1.4     27.2   53.9             2.9
Reference Time (s)       27.2     27.2   53.9             2.9
Adj Reference Time (s) 31.2       31.2   57.9             9.0
Summary                         EB WB             SB       Combined
Protected Option (s)              66.9            NA
Permitted Option (s)              57.9            Err
Split Option (s)                  89.1            9.0
Minimum (s)                       57.9            9.0            66.9
Right Turns                      WBR     SBR
Adj Reference Time (s)           12.0    11.6
Cross Thru Ref Time (s)           0.0    57.9
Oncoming Left Ref Time (s)        9.0     0.0
Combined (s)                     21.0    69.5
Intersection Summary
Intersection Capacity Utilization   57.9%        ICU Level of Service            B
Reference Times and Phasing Options do not represent an optimized timing plan.




Existing AM with Project                                                             Synchro 6 Report
KOA Corporation. Formerly                                                                     Page 1
Katz, Okitsu & Associates
Input Volumes
Total flow rates as given by the user (veh/60 min)

La Costa Ave Romeria St - Ex AM With Project

                                                                                 Intersection
                                                                                     Type
                                                                                   Roundabout



                                                                                   No color
                                                                                  code in this
                                                                                    display




Site: Ex AM With Project
N:\KOA11\B14055 La Costa Road Evaulation-Phase II\July 2011\LOS Analysis\Sidra\Romeria St.aap
Processed Jul 08, 2011 11:13:09AM

A1620, KOA Corporation, Small Office
Produced by SIDRA Intersection 3.1.061208.34
Copyright 2000-2006 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd
www.sidrasolutions.com
Table R.0 - Roundabout Basic Parameters

 La Costa Ave   Romeria St
 Ex AM With Project
 Intersection ID: 3
 Roundabout

 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
                                             Circulating/Exiting Stream
  Cent Circ Insc No.of No.of Av.Ent --------------------------------
--------
 Island Width Diam. Circ. Entry Lane    Flow %HV Adjust. %Exit Cap.
O-D
  Diam              Lanes Lanes Width (veh/        Flow    Incl.
Constr. Factor
  (ft) (ft) (ft)                (ft)     h)        (pcu/h)       Effect
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00     17   0.0     17     0     N
0.997
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
 South: S Romeria St
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00    353   0.0    353     0     N
0.991
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
 East: E La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00     46   0.0     46     0     N
0.994
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
 North: N Romeria St
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00    554   0.0    554     0     N
0.969
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
Table S.15 - Capacity and Level of Service

 La Costa Ave   Romeria St
 Ex AM With Project
 Intersection ID: 3
 Roundabout

 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  Mov     Mov    Total Total     Deg.   Aver.   LOS Longest Queue
  ID      Typ    Flow    Cap.     of    Delay          95% Back
                 (veh   (veh     Satn                 (vehs) (ft)
                   /h)    /h)    (v/c) (sec)
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   5L L              2      9   0.222    11.9    A      1.8     46
   2T T            336   1485   0.226     6.8    A      1.8     46
   2R R             12     53   0.226     7.6    A      1.8     46
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 South: S Romeria St
   3L L             43    867   0.050    13.6    A      0.3      8
   8T T              1     20   0.050     8.5    A      0.3      8
   8R R              5    101   0.050     9.3    A      0.3      8
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 East: E La Costa Ave
   1L L              1      3   0.333    12.1    A      3.2     80
   6T T            509   1433   0.355     7.0    A      3.2     80
   6R R              5     14   0.357*    7.8    A      3.2     80
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 North: N Romeria St
   7L L             15    464   0.032    14.8    A      0.2      5
   4T T              1     31   0.032     9.6    A      0.2      5
   4R R             11    340   0.032    10.5    A      0.2      5
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  ALL VEHICLES:    941          0.357            A      3.2     80
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
      Level of Service calculations are based on
      v/c ratio (ICU criteria),
      independent of the current delay definition used.
      For the criteria, refer to the "Level of Service" topic in the
      SIDRA Output Guide or the Output section of the on-line help.
   * Maximum v/c ratio, or critical green periods
   " Movement Level of service has been determined using adjacent lane
      v/c ratio rather than short lane v/c ratio (v/c=1.0)
Intersection Capacity Utilization
9: La Costa Avenue & Cadencia St                                                                     Timing Plan: AM



Movement                 EBL      EBT    EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)               32     303       4       10     358      21       4       3      14      41       2      83
Pedestrians
Ped Button
Pedestrian Timing (s)
Free Right                                 No                       No                      No                      No
Ideal Flow              1900     1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Lost Time (s)             4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Minimum Green (s)         5.0      8.0     8.0      5.0     8.0     8.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0
Refr Cycle Length (s)    120
Volume Combined (vph)      32     303        4       10    358       21      0        7      14      0       43      83
Lane Utilization Factor  1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00
Turning Factor (vph)     0.95     1.00    0.85     0.95    1.00    0.85   0.95     0.97    0.85   0.95     0.95    0.85
Saturated Flow (vph)    1805     1900    1615     1805    1900    1615       0    1846    1615       0    1809    1615
Ped Intf Time (s)         0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
Pedestrian Frequency (%)          0.00                     0.00                    0.00                    0.00
Protected Option Allowed          Yes                      Yes                      No                      No
Reference Time (s)        2.1     19.1    0.3      0.7     22.6    1.6                     1.0                     6.2
Adj Reference Time (s)    9.0     23.1   12.0      9.0     26.6   12.0                     9.0                    10.2
Permitted Option
Adj Saturation A (vph)   120     1900             120     1900               0     188               0    124
Reference Time A (s)     31.9     19.1            10.0     22.6            0.0      4.5            0.0    41.5
Adj Saturation B (vph     NA       NA              NA       NA               0        0              0       0
Reference Time B (s)      NA       NA              NA       NA             8.3      8.5           10.7    10.9
Reference Time (s)                31.9                     22.6                     4.5                   10.9
Adj Reference Time (s)            35.9                     26.6                     9.0                   14.9
Split Option
Ref Time Combined (s)     2.1     19.1             0.7    22.6             0.0     0.5             0.0     2.9
Ref Time Seperate (s)     2.1     19.1             0.7    22.6             0.3     0.2             2.7     0.1
Reference Time (s)       19.1     19.1            22.6    22.6             0.5     0.5             2.9     2.9
Adj Reference Time (s) 23.1       23.1            26.6    26.6             9.0     9.0             9.0     9.0
Summary                         EB WB            NB SB      Combined
Protected Option (s)              35.6              NA
Permitted Option (s)              35.9            14.9
Split Option (s)                  49.7            18.0
Minimum (s)                       35.6            14.9            50.5
Right Turns                       EBR    WBR      NBR     SBR
Adj Reference Time (s)            12.0   12.0      9.0    10.2
Cross Thru Ref Time (s)            9.0    9.0     23.1    26.6
Oncoming Left Ref Time (s)         9.0    9.0      9.0     9.0
Combined (s)                      30.0   30.0     41.1    45.8
Intersection Summary
Intersection Capacity Utilization   42.1%        ICU Level of Service                        A
Reference Times and Phasing Options do not represent an optimized timing plan.




Existing AM with Project                                                                            Synchro 6 Report
KOA Corporation. Formerly                                                                                    Page 2
Katz, Okitsu & Associates
Input Volumes
Total flow rates as given by the user (veh/60 min)

La Costa Ave Nueva Castilla Way - Ex PM With Project

                                                                                  Intersection
                                                                                      Type
                                                                                    Roundabout



                                                                                    No color
                                                                                   code in this
                                                                                     display




Site: Ex PM With Project
N:\KOA11\B14055 La Costa Road Evaulation-Phase II\July 2011\LOS Analysis\Sidra\Nueva Castilla
Wy.aap
Processed Jul 08, 2011 11:06:28AM

A1620, KOA Corporation, Small Office
Produced by SIDRA Intersection 3.1.061208.34
Copyright 2000-2006 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd
www.sidrasolutions.com
Table R.0 - Roundabout Basic Parameters

 La Costa Ave   Nueva Castilla Way
 Ex PM With Project
 Intersection ID: 1
 Roundabout

 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
                                             Circulating/Exiting Stream
  Cent Circ Insc No.of No.of Av.Ent --------------------------------
--------
 Island Width Diam. Circ. Entry Lane    Flow %HV Adjust. %Exit Cap.
O-D
  Diam              Lanes Lanes Width (veh/        Flow    Incl.
Constr. Factor
  (ft) (ft) (ft)                (ft)     h)        (pcu/h)       Effect
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00     13   0.0     13     0     N
0.999
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
 South: Nueva Castillo
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00    894   0.0    894     0     N
0.958
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
 East: E. La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00     27   0.0     27     0     N
0.994
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
Table S.15 - Capacity and Level of Service

 La Costa Ave   Nueva Castilla Way
 Ex PM With Project
 Intersection ID: 1
 Roundabout

 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  Mov     Mov    Total Total     Deg.   Aver.   LOS Longest Queue
  ID      Typ    Flow    Cap.     of    Delay          95% Back
                 (veh   (veh     Satn                 (vehs) (ft)
                   /h)    /h)    (v/c) (sec)
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   2T T            894   1525   0.586*    6.8    A      6.9    173
   2R R             72    123   0.585     7.7    A      6.9    173
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 South: Nueva Castillo
   3L L             27    436   0.062    18.2    A      0.5     11
   8R R             12    194   0.062    13.9    A      0.5     11
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 East: E. La Costa Ave
   1L L             13     36   0.361    12.0    A      3.6     90
   6T T            543   1491   0.364     6.8    A      3.6     90
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  ALL VEHICLES:   1561          0.586            A      6.9    173
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
      Level of Service calculations are based on
      v/c ratio (ICU criteria),
      independent of the current delay definition used.
      For the criteria, refer to the "Level of Service" topic in the
      SIDRA Output Guide or the Output section of the on-line help.
   * Maximum v/c ratio, or critical green periods
   " Movement Level of service has been determined using adjacent lane
      v/c ratio rather than short lane v/c ratio (v/c=1.0)
Intersection Capacity Utilization
4: La Costa Avenue & Viejo Castilla Wy                                               Timing Plan: PM



Movement                 EBL      EBT    WBT     WBR     SBL     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)               79     780     474      38      12      49
Pedestrians
Ped Button
Pedestrian Timing (s)
Free Right                                         No              No
Ideal Flow              1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Lost Time (s)             4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Minimum Green (s)         5.0      8.0     8.0     8.0     5.0     5.0
Refr Cycle Length (s)    120
Volume Combined (vph)      79     780     474       38      12      49
Lane Utilization Factor  1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Turning Factor (vph)     0.95     1.00    1.00    0.85    0.95    0.85
Saturated Flow (vph)    1805     1900    1900    1615    1805    1615
Ped Intf Time (s)         0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Pedestrian Frequency (%)          0.00    0.00            0.00
Protected Option Allowed          Yes     Yes              No
Reference Time (s)        5.3     49.3    29.9    2.8             3.6
Adj Reference Time (s)    9.3     53.3    33.9   12.0             9.0
Permitted Option
Adj Saturation A (vph)   120     1900    1900            120
Reference Time A (s)     78.8     49.3    29.9           12.0
Adj Saturation B (vph     NA       NA      NA             NA
Reference Time B (s)      NA       NA      NA             NA
Reference Time (s)                78.8    29.9
Adj Reference Time (s)            82.8    33.9
Split Option
Ref Time Combined (s)     5.3     49.3   29.9             0.8
Ref Time Seperate (s)     5.3     49.3   29.9             0.8
Reference Time (s)       49.3     49.3   29.9             0.8
Adj Reference Time (s) 53.3       53.3   33.9             9.0
Summary                         EB WB             SB       Combined
Protected Option (s)              53.3            NA
Permitted Option (s)              82.8            Err
Split Option (s)                  87.2            9.0
Minimum (s)                       53.3            9.0            62.3
Right Turns                      WBR     SBR
Adj Reference Time (s)           12.0     9.0
Cross Thru Ref Time (s)           0.0    33.9
Oncoming Left Ref Time (s)        9.3     0.0
Combined (s)                     21.3    42.9
Intersection Summary
Intersection Capacity Utilization   51.9%        ICU Level of Service            A
Reference Times and Phasing Options do not represent an optimized timing plan.




Existing PM with Project                                                             Synchro 6 Report
KOA Corporation. Formerly                                                                     Page 1
Katz, Okitsu & Associates
Input Volumes
Total flow rates as given by the user (veh/60 min)

La Costa Ave Romeria St - Ex PM With Project

                                                                                 Intersection
                                                                                     Type
                                                                                   Roundabout



                                                                                   No color
                                                                                  code in this
                                                                                    display




Site: Ex PM With Project
N:\KOA11\B14055 La Costa Road Evaulation-Phase II\July 2011\LOS Analysis\Sidra\Romeria St.aap
Processed Jul 08, 2011 11:13:09AM

A1620, KOA Corporation, Small Office
Produced by SIDRA Intersection 3.1.061208.34
Copyright 2000-2006 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd
www.sidrasolutions.com
Table R.0 - Roundabout Basic Parameters

 La Costa Ave   Romeria St
 Ex PM With Project
 Intersection ID: 3
 Roundabout

 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
                                             Circulating/Exiting Stream
  Cent Circ Insc No.of No.of Av.Ent --------------------------------
--------
 Island Width Diam. Circ. Entry Lane    Flow %HV Adjust. %Exit Cap.
O-D
  Diam              Lanes Lanes Width (veh/        Flow    Incl.
Constr. Factor
  (ft) (ft) (ft)                (ft)     h)        (pcu/h)       Effect
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00     16   0.0     16     0     N
0.998
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
 South: S Romeria St
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00    724   0.0    724     0     N
0.969
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
 East: E La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00     49   0.0     49     0     N
0.993
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
 North: N Romeria St
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00    427   0.0    427     0     N
0.979
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
Table S.15 - Capacity and Level of Service

 La Costa Ave   Romeria St
 Ex PM With Project
 Intersection ID: 3
 Roundabout

 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  Mov     Mov    Total Total     Deg.   Aver.   LOS Longest Queue
  ID      Typ    Flow    Cap.     of    Delay          95% Back
                 (veh   (veh     Satn                 (vehs) (ft)
                   /h)    /h)    (v/c) (sec)
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   5L L             12     26   0.462    11.9    A      4.9    124
   2T T            701   1500   0.467*    6.8    A      4.9    124
   2R R             41     88   0.466     7.7    A      4.9    124
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 South: S Romeria St
   3L L             37    494   0.075    16.3    A      0.5     13
   8T T              1     13   0.077    11.2    A      0.5     13
   8R R             17    227   0.075    12.1    A      0.5     13
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 East: E La Costa Ave
   1L L              2      7   0.286    12.1    A      2.5     61
   6T T            388   1340   0.290     7.0    A      2.5     61
   6R R             21     72   0.292     7.8    A      2.5     61
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 North: N Romeria St
   7L L             12    482   0.025    13.9    A      0.2      4
   4T T              2     80   0.025     8.8    A      0.2      4
   4R R              9    362   0.025     9.7    A      0.2      4
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  ALL VEHICLES:   1243          0.467            A      4.9    124
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
      Level of Service calculations are based on
      v/c ratio (ICU criteria),
      independent of the current delay definition used.
      For the criteria, refer to the "Level of Service" topic in the
      SIDRA Output Guide or the Output section of the on-line help.
   * Maximum v/c ratio, or critical green periods
   " Movement Level of service has been determined using adjacent lane
      v/c ratio rather than short lane v/c ratio (v/c=1.0)
Intersection Capacity Utilization
9: La Costa Avenue & Cadencia St                                                                     Timing Plan: PM



Movement                 EBL      EBT    EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)               62     506      13       13     315      48       8       3      18      37      10      43
Pedestrians
Ped Button
Pedestrian Timing (s)
Free Right                                 No                       No                      No                      No
Ideal Flow              1900     1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Lost Time (s)             4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Minimum Green (s)         5.0      8.0     8.0      5.0     8.0     8.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0
Refr Cycle Length (s)    120
Volume Combined (vph)      62     506       13       13    315       48      0       11      18      0       47      43
Lane Utilization Factor  1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00
Turning Factor (vph)     0.95     1.00    0.85     0.95    1.00    0.85   0.95     0.96    0.85   0.95     0.96    0.85
Saturated Flow (vph)    1805     1900    1615     1805    1900    1615       0    1831    1615       0    1825    1615
Ped Intf Time (s)         0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
Pedestrian Frequency (%)          0.00                     0.00                    0.00                    0.00
Protected Option Allowed          Yes                      Yes                      No                      No
Reference Time (s)        4.1     32.0    1.0      0.9     19.9    3.6                     1.3                     3.2
Adj Reference Time (s)    9.0     36.0   12.0      9.0     23.9   12.0                     9.0                     9.0
Permitted Option
Adj Saturation A (vph)   120     1900             120     1900               0    153                0    144
Reference Time A (s)     61.8     32.0            13.0     19.9            0.0     8.6             0.0    39.2
Adj Saturation B (vph     NA       NA              NA       NA               0       0               0       0
Reference Time B (s)      NA       NA              NA       NA             8.5     8.7            10.5    11.1
Reference Time (s)                61.8                     19.9                    8.6                    11.1
Adj Reference Time (s)            65.8                     23.9                   12.6                    15.1
Split Option
Ref Time Combined (s)     4.1     32.0             0.9    19.9             0.0     0.7             0.0     3.1
Ref Time Seperate (s)     4.1     32.0             0.9    19.9             0.5     0.2             2.5     0.6
Reference Time (s)       32.0     32.0            19.9    19.9             0.7     0.7             3.1     3.1
Adj Reference Time (s) 36.0       36.0            23.9    23.9             9.0     9.0             9.0     9.0
Summary                         EB WB            NB SB      Combined
Protected Option (s)              45.0              NA
Permitted Option (s)              65.8            15.1
Split Option (s)                  59.9            18.0
Minimum (s)                       45.0            15.1            60.0
Right Turns                       EBR    WBR      NBR     SBR
Adj Reference Time (s)            12.0   12.0      9.0     9.0
Cross Thru Ref Time (s)            9.0    9.0     36.0    23.9
Oncoming Left Ref Time (s)         9.0    9.0      9.0     9.0
Combined (s)                      30.0   30.0     54.0    41.9
Intersection Summary
Intersection Capacity Utilization   50.0%        ICU Level of Service                        A
Reference Times and Phasing Options do not represent an optimized timing plan.




Existing PM with Project                                                                            Synchro 6 Report
KOA Corporation. Formerly                                                                                    Page 2
Katz, Okitsu & Associates
Future Conditions
Intersection Capacity Utilization
3: La Costa Avenue & Nueva Castilla Way                                              Timing Plan: AM



Movement                 EBT      EBR    WBL     WBT     NBL     NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)             508       23      19    1127      50      32
Pedestrians
Ped Button
Pedestrian Timing (s)
Free Right                         No                              No
Ideal Flow              1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Lost Time (s)             4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Minimum Green (s)         4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Refr Cycle Length (s)    120
Volume Combined (vph) 508           23      19   1127       50      32
Lane Utilization Factor  0.95     1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00
Turning Factor (vph)     1.00     0.85    0.95    1.00    0.95    0.85
Saturated Flow (vph)    3618     1615    1805    3618    1805    1615
Ped Intf Time (s)         0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Pedestrian Frequency (%)0.00                      0.00    0.00
Protected Option Allowed Yes                      Yes      No
Reference Time (s)       16.9      1.7    1.3     37.4            2.4
Adj Reference Time (s) 20.9        8.0    8.0     41.4            8.0
Permitted Option
Adj Saturation A (vph) 1809              120     1809    120
Reference Time A (s)     16.9            18.9     37.4   49.9
Adj Saturation B (vph     NA              NA       NA     NA
Reference Time B (s)      NA              NA       NA     NA
Reference Time (s)       16.9                     37.4
Adj Reference Time (s) 20.9                       41.4
Split Option
Ref Time Combined (s) 16.9                1.3    37.4     3.3
Ref Time Seperate (s)    16.9             1.3    37.4     3.3
Reference Time (s)       16.9            37.4    37.4     3.3
Adj Reference Time (s) 20.9              41.4    41.4     8.0
Summary                         EB WB             NB       Combined
Protected Option (s)              41.4            NA
Permitted Option (s)              41.4            Err
Split Option (s)                  62.2            8.0
Minimum (s)                       41.4            8.0            49.4
Right Turns                       EBR    NBR
Adj Reference Time (s)             8.0    8.0
Cross Thru Ref Time (s)            0.0   20.9
Oncoming Left Ref Time (s)         8.0    0.0
Combined (s)                      16.0   28.9
Intersection Summary
Intersection Capacity Utilization   41.2%        ICU Level of Service            A
Reference Times and Phasing Options do not represent an optimized timing plan.




2030 AM without Project                                                              Synchro 6 Report
KOA Corporation. Formerly                                                                     Page 1
Katz, Okitsu & Associates
Intersection Capacity Utilization
4: La Costa Avenue & Viejo Castilla Wy                                               Timing Plan: AM



Movement                 EBL      EBT    WBT     WBR     SBL     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)               25     517    1024      18      53     122
Pedestrians
Ped Button
Pedestrian Timing (s)
Free Right                                         No              No
Ideal Flow              1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Lost Time (s)             4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Minimum Green (s)         5.0      8.0     8.0     8.0     5.0     5.0
Refr Cycle Length (s)    120
Volume Combined (vph)      25     517    1024       18      53    122
Lane Utilization Factor  1.00     0.95    0.95    1.00    1.00    1.00
Turning Factor (vph)     0.95     1.00    1.00    0.85    0.95    0.85
Saturated Flow (vph)    1805     3618    3618    1615    1805    1615
Ped Intf Time (s)         0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Pedestrian Frequency (%)          0.00    0.00            0.00
Protected Option Allowed          Yes     Yes              No
Reference Time (s)        1.7     17.1    34.0    1.3             9.1
Adj Reference Time (s)    9.0     21.1    38.0   12.0            13.1
Permitted Option
Adj Saturation A (vph)   120     1809    1809            120
Reference Time A (s)     24.9     17.1    34.0           52.9
Adj Saturation B (vph     NA       NA      NA             NA
Reference Time B (s)      NA       NA      NA             NA
Reference Time (s)                24.9    34.0
Adj Reference Time (s)            28.9    38.0
Split Option
Ref Time Combined (s)     1.7     17.1   34.0             3.5
Ref Time Seperate (s)     1.7     17.1   34.0             3.5
Reference Time (s)       17.1     17.1   34.0             3.5
Adj Reference Time (s) 21.1       21.1   38.0             9.0
Summary                         EB WB             SB       Combined
Protected Option (s)              47.0            NA
Permitted Option (s)              38.0            Err
Split Option (s)                  59.1            9.0
Minimum (s)                       38.0            9.0            47.0
Right Turns                      WBR     SBR
Adj Reference Time (s)           12.0    13.1
Cross Thru Ref Time (s)           0.0    38.0
Oncoming Left Ref Time (s)        9.0     0.0
Combined (s)                     21.0    51.0
Intersection Summary
Intersection Capacity Utilization   42.5%        ICU Level of Service            A
Reference Times and Phasing Options do not represent an optimized timing plan.




2030 AM without Project                                                              Synchro 6 Report
KOA Corporation. Formerly                                                                     Page 2
Katz, Okitsu & Associates
Intersection Capacity Utilization
7: La Costa Avenue & Romeria St                                                                      Timing Plan: AM



Movement                 EBL      EBT    EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)                2     383      13        1     581       6      49       0       6      17       0      12
Pedestrians
Ped Button
Pedestrian Timing (s)
Free Right                                 No                       No                      No                      No
Ideal Flow              1900     1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Lost Time (s)             4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Minimum Green (s)         5.0      8.0     8.0      5.0     8.0     8.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0
Refr Cycle Length (s)    120
Volume Combined (vph)       2     383       13        1    581        6      0       49       6      0       17      12
Lane Utilization Factor  1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00
Turning Factor (vph)     0.95     1.00    0.85     0.95    1.00    0.85   0.95     0.95    0.85   0.95     0.95    0.85
Saturated Flow (vph)    1805     1900    1615     1805    3618    1615       0    1805    1615       0    1805    1615
Ped Intf Time (s)         0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
Pedestrian Frequency (%)          0.00                     0.00                    0.00                    0.00
Protected Option Allowed          Yes                      Yes                      No                      No
Reference Time (s)        0.1     24.2    1.0      0.1     19.3    0.4                     0.4                     0.9
Adj Reference Time (s)    9.0     28.2   12.0      9.0     23.3   12.0                     9.0                     9.0
Permitted Option
Adj Saturation A (vph)   120     1900              120    1809               0    120                0    120
Reference Time A (s)      2.0     24.2              1.0    19.3            0.0    48.9             0.0    17.0
Adj Saturation B (vph     NA       NA               NA      NA               0       0               0       0
Reference Time B (s)      NA       NA               NA      NA            11.3    11.3             9.1     9.1
Reference Time (s)                24.2                     19.3                   11.3                     9.1
Adj Reference Time (s)            28.2                     23.3                   15.3                    13.1
Split Option
Ref Time Combined (s)     0.1     24.2             0.1    19.3             0.0     3.3             0.0     1.1
Ref Time Seperate (s)     0.1     24.2             0.1    19.3             3.3     0.0             1.1     0.0
Reference Time (s)       24.2     24.2            19.3    19.3             3.3     3.3             1.1     1.1
Adj Reference Time (s) 28.2       28.2            23.3    23.3             9.0     9.0             9.0     9.0
Summary                         EB WB            NB SB      Combined
Protected Option (s)              37.2              NA
Permitted Option (s)              28.2            15.3
Split Option (s)                  51.5            18.0
Minimum (s)                       28.2            15.3            43.4
Right Turns                       EBR    WBR      NBR     SBR
Adj Reference Time (s)            12.0   12.0      9.0     9.0
Cross Thru Ref Time (s)            9.0    9.0     28.2    23.3
Oncoming Left Ref Time (s)         9.0    9.0      9.0     9.0
Combined (s)                      30.0   30.0     46.2    41.3
Intersection Summary
Intersection Capacity Utilization   38.5%        ICU Level of Service                        A
Reference Times and Phasing Options do not represent an optimized timing plan.




2030 AM without Project                                                                             Synchro 6 Report
KOA Corporation. Formerly                                                                                    Page 3
Katz, Okitsu & Associates
Intersection Capacity Utilization
9: La Costa Avenue & Cadencia St                                                                     Timing Plan: AM



Movement                 EBL      EBT    EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)               38     364       5       12     430      25       5       4      17      49       2     100
Pedestrians
Ped Button
Pedestrian Timing (s)
Free Right                                 No                       No                      No                      No
Ideal Flow              1900     1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Lost Time (s)             4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Minimum Green (s)         5.0      8.0     8.0      5.0     8.0     8.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0
Refr Cycle Length (s)    120
Volume Combined (vph)      38     364        5       12    430       25      0        9      17      0       51    100
Lane Utilization Factor  1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00
Turning Factor (vph)     0.95     1.00    0.85     0.95    1.00    0.85   0.95     0.97    0.85   0.95     0.95    0.85
Saturated Flow (vph)    1805     1900    1615     1805    3618    1615       0    1847    1615       0    1809    1615
Ped Intf Time (s)         0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
Pedestrian Frequency (%)          0.00                     0.00                    0.00                    0.00
Protected Option Allowed          Yes                      Yes                      No                      No
Reference Time (s)        2.5     23.0    0.4      0.8     14.3    1.9                     1.3                     7.4
Adj Reference Time (s)    9.0     27.0   12.0      9.0     18.3   12.0                     9.0                    11.4
Permitted Option
Adj Saturation A (vph)   120     1900             120     1809               0     193               0    124
Reference Time A (s)     37.9     23.0            12.0     14.3            0.0      5.6            0.0    49.5
Adj Saturation B (vph     NA       NA              NA       NA               0        0              0       0
Reference Time B (s)      NA       NA              NA       NA             8.3      8.6           11.3    11.4
Reference Time (s)                37.9                     14.3                     5.6                   11.4
Adj Reference Time (s)            41.9                     18.3                     9.6                   15.4
Split Option
Ref Time Combined (s)     2.5     23.0             0.8    14.3             0.0     0.6             0.0     3.4
Ref Time Seperate (s)     2.5     23.0             0.8    14.3             0.3     0.3             3.3     0.1
Reference Time (s)       23.0     23.0            14.3    14.3             0.6     0.6             3.4     3.4
Adj Reference Time (s) 27.0       27.0            18.3    18.3             9.0     9.0             9.0     9.0
Summary                         EB WB            NB SB      Combined
Protected Option (s)              36.0              NA
Permitted Option (s)              41.9            15.4
Split Option (s)                  45.3            18.0
Minimum (s)                       36.0            15.4            51.4
Right Turns                       EBR    WBR      NBR     SBR
Adj Reference Time (s)            12.0   12.0      9.0    11.4
Cross Thru Ref Time (s)            9.0    9.0     27.0    18.3
Oncoming Left Ref Time (s)         9.0    9.0      9.0     9.0
Combined (s)                      30.0   30.0     45.0    38.7
Intersection Summary
Intersection Capacity Utilization   42.8%        ICU Level of Service                        A
Reference Times and Phasing Options do not represent an optimized timing plan.




2030 AM without Project                                                                             Synchro 6 Report
KOA Corporation. Formerly                                                                                    Page 4
Katz, Okitsu & Associates
Intersection Capacity Utilization
3: La Costa Avenue & Nueva Castilla Way                                              Timing Plan: PM



Movement                 EBT      EBR    WBL     WBT     NBL     NBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)            1019       82      14     619      31      13
Pedestrians
Ped Button
Pedestrian Timing (s)
Free Right                         No                              No
Ideal Flow              1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Lost Time (s)             4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Minimum Green (s)         4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Refr Cycle Length (s)    120
Volume Combined (vph) 1019          82      14    619       31      13
Lane Utilization Factor  0.95     1.00    1.00    0.95    1.00    1.00
Turning Factor (vph)     1.00     0.85    0.95    1.00    0.95    0.85
Saturated Flow (vph)    3618     1615    1805    3618    1805    1615
Ped Intf Time (s)         0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Pedestrian Frequency (%)0.00                      0.00    0.00
Protected Option Allowed Yes                      Yes      No
Reference Time (s)       33.8      6.1    0.9     20.5            1.0
Adj Reference Time (s) 37.8       10.1    8.0     24.5            8.0
Permitted Option
Adj Saturation A (vph) 1809              120     1809    120
Reference Time A (s)     33.8            14.0     20.5   30.9
Adj Saturation B (vph     NA              NA       NA     NA
Reference Time B (s)      NA              NA       NA     NA
Reference Time (s)       33.8                     20.5
Adj Reference Time (s) 37.8                       24.5
Split Option
Ref Time Combined (s) 33.8                0.9    20.5     2.1
Ref Time Seperate (s)    33.8             0.9    20.5     2.1
Reference Time (s)       33.8            20.5    20.5     2.1
Adj Reference Time (s) 37.8              24.5    24.5     8.0
Summary                         EB WB             NB       Combined
Protected Option (s)              45.8            NA
Permitted Option (s)              37.8            Err
Split Option (s)                  62.3            8.0
Minimum (s)                       37.8            8.0            45.8
Right Turns                       EBR    NBR
Adj Reference Time (s)            10.1    8.0
Cross Thru Ref Time (s)            0.0   37.8
Oncoming Left Ref Time (s)         8.0    0.0
Combined (s)                      18.1   45.8
Intersection Summary
Intersection Capacity Utilization   38.2%        ICU Level of Service            A
Reference Times and Phasing Options do not represent an optimized timing plan.




2030 PM without Project                                                              Synchro 6 Report
KOA Corporation. Formerly                                                                     Page 1
Katz, Okitsu & Associates
Intersection Capacity Utilization
4: La Costa Avenue & Viejo Castilla Wy                                               Timing Plan: PM



Movement                 EBL      EBT    WBT     WBR     SBL     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)               95     936     569      46      14      59
Pedestrians
Ped Button
Pedestrian Timing (s)
Free Right                                         No              No
Ideal Flow              1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Lost Time (s)             4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Minimum Green (s)         5.0      8.0     8.0     8.0     5.0     5.0
Refr Cycle Length (s)    120
Volume Combined (vph)      95     936     569       46      14      59
Lane Utilization Factor  1.00     0.95    0.95    1.00    1.00    1.00
Turning Factor (vph)     0.95     1.00    1.00    0.85    0.95    0.85
Saturated Flow (vph)    1805     3618    3618    1615    1805    1615
Ped Intf Time (s)         0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Pedestrian Frequency (%)          0.00    0.00            0.00
Protected Option Allowed          Yes     Yes              No
Reference Time (s)        6.3     31.0    18.9    3.4             4.4
Adj Reference Time (s) 10.3       35.0    22.9   12.0             9.0
Permitted Option
Adj Saturation A (vph)   120     1809    1809            120
Reference Time A (s)     94.7     31.0    18.9           14.0
Adj Saturation B (vph     NA       NA      NA             NA
Reference Time B (s)      NA       NA      NA             NA
Reference Time (s)                94.7    18.9
Adj Reference Time (s)            98.7    22.9
Split Option
Ref Time Combined (s)     6.3     31.0   18.9             0.9
Ref Time Seperate (s)     6.3     31.0   18.9             0.9
Reference Time (s)       31.0     31.0   18.9             0.9
Adj Reference Time (s) 35.0       35.0   22.9             9.0
Summary                         EB WB             SB       Combined
Protected Option (s)              35.0            NA
Permitted Option (s)              98.7            Err
Split Option (s)                  57.9            9.0
Minimum (s)                       35.0            9.0            44.0
Right Turns                      WBR     SBR
Adj Reference Time (s)           12.0     9.0
Cross Thru Ref Time (s)           0.0    22.9
Oncoming Left Ref Time (s)       10.3     0.0
Combined (s)                     22.3    31.9
Intersection Summary
Intersection Capacity Utilization   36.7%        ICU Level of Service            A
Reference Times and Phasing Options do not represent an optimized timing plan.




2030 PM without Project                                                              Synchro 6 Report
KOA Corporation. Formerly                                                                     Page 2
Katz, Okitsu & Associates
Intersection Capacity Utilization
7: La Costa Avenue & Romeria St                                                                      Timing Plan: PM



Movement                 EBL      EBT    EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)               13     799      47        2     443      24      42       1      19      13       2      11
Pedestrians
Ped Button
Pedestrian Timing (s)
Free Right                                 No                       No                      No                      No
Ideal Flow              1900     1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Lost Time (s)             4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Minimum Green (s)         5.0      8.0     8.0      5.0     8.0     8.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0
Refr Cycle Length (s)    120
Volume Combined (vph)      13     799       47        2    443       24      0       43      19      0       15      11
Lane Utilization Factor  1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00
Turning Factor (vph)     0.95     1.00    0.85     0.95    1.00    0.85   0.95     0.95    0.85   0.95     0.96    0.85
Saturated Flow (vph)    1805     1900    1615     1805    3618    1615       0    1807    1615       0    1818    1615
Ped Intf Time (s)         0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
Pedestrian Frequency (%)          0.00                     0.00                    0.00                    0.00
Protected Option Allowed          Yes                      Yes                      No                      No
Reference Time (s)        0.9     50.5    3.5      0.1     14.7    1.8                     1.4                     0.8
Adj Reference Time (s)    9.0     54.5   12.0      9.0     18.7   12.0                     9.0                     9.0
Permitted Option
Adj Saturation A (vph)   120     1900              120    1809               0    122                0    133
Reference Time A (s)     13.0     50.5              2.0    14.7            0.0    42.2             0.0    13.5
Adj Saturation B (vph     NA       NA               NA      NA               0       0               0       0
Reference Time B (s)      NA       NA               NA      NA            10.8    10.9             8.9     9.0
Reference Time (s)                50.5                     14.7                   10.9                     9.0
Adj Reference Time (s)            54.5                     18.7                   14.9                    13.0
Split Option
Ref Time Combined (s)     0.9     50.5             0.1    14.7             0.0     2.9             0.0     1.0
Ref Time Seperate (s)     0.9     50.5             0.1    14.7             2.8     0.1             0.9     0.1
Reference Time (s)       50.5     50.5            14.7    14.7             2.9     2.9             1.0     1.0
Adj Reference Time (s) 54.5       54.5            18.7    18.7             9.0     9.0             9.0     9.0
Summary                         EB WB            NB SB      Combined
Protected Option (s)              63.5              NA
Permitted Option (s)              54.5            14.9
Split Option (s)                  73.2            18.0
Minimum (s)                       54.5            14.9            69.3
Right Turns                       EBR    WBR      NBR     SBR
Adj Reference Time (s)            12.0   12.0      9.0     9.0
Cross Thru Ref Time (s)            9.0    9.0     54.5    18.7
Oncoming Left Ref Time (s)         9.0    9.0      9.0     9.0
Combined (s)                      30.0   30.0     72.5    36.7
Intersection Summary
Intersection Capacity Utilization   60.4%        ICU Level of Service                        B
Reference Times and Phasing Options do not represent an optimized timing plan.




2030 PM without Project                                                                             Synchro 6 Report
KOA Corporation. Formerly                                                                                    Page 3
Katz, Okitsu & Associates
Intersection Capacity Utilization
9: La Costa Avenue & Cadencia St                                                                     Timing Plan: PM



Movement                 EBL      EBT    EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)               74     607      16       16     378      58      10       4      22      44      12      52
Pedestrians
Ped Button
Pedestrian Timing (s)
Free Right                                 No                       No                      No                      No
Ideal Flow              1900     1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Lost Time (s)             4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Minimum Green (s)         5.0      8.0     8.0      5.0     8.0     8.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0
Refr Cycle Length (s)    120
Volume Combined (vph)      74     607       16       16    378       58      0       14      22      0       56      52
Lane Utilization Factor  1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00    0.95    1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00
Turning Factor (vph)     0.95     1.00    0.85     0.95    1.00    0.85   0.95     0.96    0.85   0.95     0.96    0.85
Saturated Flow (vph)    1805     1900    1615     1805    3618    1615       0    1832    1615       0    1825    1615
Ped Intf Time (s)         0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
Pedestrian Frequency (%)          0.00                     0.00                    0.00                    0.00
Protected Option Allowed          Yes                      Yes                      No                      No
Reference Time (s)        4.9     38.3    1.2      1.1     12.5    4.3                     1.6                     3.9
Adj Reference Time (s)    9.0     42.3   12.0      9.0     16.5   12.0                     9.0                     9.0
Permitted Option
Adj Saturation A (vph)   120     1900             120     1809               0    156                0    144
Reference Time A (s)     73.8     38.3            16.0     12.5            0.0    10.8             0.0    46.6
Adj Saturation B (vph     NA       NA              NA       NA               0       0               0       0
Reference Time B (s)      NA       NA              NA       NA             8.7     8.9            10.9    11.7
Reference Time (s)                73.8                     16.0                    8.9                    11.7
Adj Reference Time (s)            77.8                     20.0                   12.9                    15.7
Split Option
Ref Time Combined (s)     4.9     38.3             1.1    12.5             0.0     0.9             0.0     3.7
Ref Time Seperate (s)     4.9     38.3             1.1    12.5             0.7     0.3             2.9     0.8
Reference Time (s)       38.3     38.3            12.5    12.5             0.9     0.9             3.7     3.7
Adj Reference Time (s) 42.3       42.3            16.5    16.5             9.0     9.0             9.0     9.0
Summary                         EB WB            NB SB      Combined
Protected Option (s)              51.3              NA
Permitted Option (s)              77.8            15.7
Split Option (s)                  58.9            18.0
Minimum (s)                       51.3            15.7            67.0
Right Turns                       EBR    WBR      NBR     SBR
Adj Reference Time (s)            12.0   12.0      9.0     9.0
Cross Thru Ref Time (s)            9.0    9.0     42.3    16.5
Oncoming Left Ref Time (s)         9.0    9.0      9.0     9.0
Combined (s)                      30.0   30.0     60.3    34.5
Intersection Summary
Intersection Capacity Utilization   55.8%        ICU Level of Service                        B
Reference Times and Phasing Options do not represent an optimized timing plan.




2030 PM without Project                                                                             Synchro 6 Report
KOA Corporation. Formerly                                                                                    Page 4
Katz, Okitsu & Associates
Input Volumes
Total flow rates as given by the user (veh/60 min)

La Costa Ave Nueva Castilla Way - 2030 AM With Project

                                                                                  Intersection
                                                                                      Type
                                                                                    Roundabout



                                                                                    No color
                                                                                   code in this
                                                                                     display




Site: 2030 AM With Project
N:\KOA11\B14055 La Costa Road Evaulation-Phase II\July 2011\LOS Analysis\Sidra\Nueva Castilla
Wy.aap
Processed Jul 08, 2011 11:06:28AM

A1620, KOA Corporation, Small Office
Produced by SIDRA Intersection 3.1.061208.34
Copyright 2000-2006 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd
www.sidrasolutions.com
Table R.0 - Roundabout Basic Parameters

 La Costa Ave   Nueva Castilla Way
 2030 AM With Project
 Intersection ID: 1
 Roundabout

 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
                                             Circulating/Exiting Stream
  Cent Circ Insc No.of No.of Av.Ent --------------------------------
--------
 Island Width Diam. Circ. Entry Lane    Flow %HV Adjust. %Exit Cap.
O-D
  Diam              Lanes Lanes Width (veh/        Flow    Incl.
Constr. Factor
  (ft) (ft) (ft)                (ft)     h)        (pcu/h)       Effect
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00     20   0.0     20     0     N
0.997
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
 South: Nueva Castillo
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00    535   0.0    535     0     N
0.980
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
 East: E. La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00     53   0.0     53     0     N
0.991
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
Table S.15 - Capacity and Level of Service

 La Costa Ave   Nueva Castilla Way
 2030 AM With Project
 Intersection ID: 1
 Roundabout

 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  Mov     Mov    Total Total     Deg.   Aver.   LOS Longest Queue
  ID      Typ    Flow    Cap.     of    Delay          95% Back
                 (veh   (veh     Satn                 (vehs) (ft)
                   /h)    /h)    (v/c) (sec)
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   2T T            535   1499   0.357     6.8    A      3.4     84
   2R R             24     67   0.358     7.7    A      3.4     84
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 South: Nueva Castillo
   3L L             53    522   0.102    14.9    A      0.7     17
   8R R             34    335   0.101    10.6    A      0.7     17
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 East: E. La Costa Ave
   1L L             20     25   0.800    12.6    C     16.6    416
   6T T           1186   1475   0.804*    7.5    D     16.6    416
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  ALL VEHICLES:   1852          0.804            D     16.6    416
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
      Level of Service calculations are based on
      v/c ratio (ICU criteria),
      independent of the current delay definition used.
      For the criteria, refer to the "Level of Service" topic in the
      SIDRA Output Guide or the Output section of the on-line help.
   * Maximum v/c ratio, or critical green periods
   " Movement Level of service has been determined using adjacent lane
      v/c ratio rather than short lane v/c ratio (v/c=1.0)
Intersection Capacity Utilization
4: La Costa Avenue & Viejo Castilla Wy                                               Timing Plan: AM



Movement                 EBL      EBT    WBT     WBR     SBL     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)               25     517    1024      18      53     122
Pedestrians
Ped Button
Pedestrian Timing (s)
Free Right                                         No              No
Ideal Flow              1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Lost Time (s)             4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Minimum Green (s)         5.0      8.0     8.0     4.0     5.0     5.0
Refr Cycle Length (s)    120
Volume Combined (vph)      25     517    1042       0       53    122
Lane Utilization Factor  1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00
Turning Factor (vph)     0.95     1.00    1.00   0.85     0.95    0.85
Saturated Flow (vph)    1805     1900    1895       0    1805    1615
Ped Intf Time (s)         0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
Pedestrian Frequency (%)          0.00    0.00            0.00
Protected Option Allowed          Yes     Yes              No
Reference Time (s)        1.7     32.7    66.0    0.0             9.1
Adj Reference Time (s)    9.0     36.7    70.0    0.0            13.1
Permitted Option
Adj Saturation A (vph)   120     1900    1895            120
Reference Time A (s)     24.9     32.7    66.0           52.9
Adj Saturation B (vph     NA       NA      NA             NA
Reference Time B (s)      NA       NA      NA             NA
Reference Time (s)                32.7    66.0
Adj Reference Time (s)            36.7    70.0
Split Option
Ref Time Combined (s)     1.7     32.7   66.0             3.5
Ref Time Seperate (s)     1.7     32.7   64.8             3.5
Reference Time (s)       32.7     32.7   66.0             3.5
Adj Reference Time (s) 36.7       36.7   70.0             9.0
Summary                         EB WB             SB       Combined
Protected Option (s)              79.0            NA
Permitted Option (s)              70.0            Err
Split Option (s)                 106.6            9.0
Minimum (s)                       70.0            9.0            79.0
Right Turns                       SBR
Adj Reference Time (s)            13.1
Cross Thru Ref Time (s)           70.0
Oncoming Left Ref Time (s)         0.0
Combined (s)                      83.0
Intersection Summary
Intersection Capacity Utilization   69.2%        ICU Level of Service            C
Reference Times and Phasing Options do not represent an optimized timing plan.




2030 AM with Project                                                                 Synchro 6 Report
KOA Corporation. Formerly                                                                     Page 1
Katz, Okitsu & Associates
Input Volumes
Total flow rates as given by the user (veh/60 min)

La Costa Ave Romeria St - 2030 AM With Project

                                                                                 Intersection
                                                                                     Type
                                                                                   Roundabout



                                                                                   No color
                                                                                  code in this
                                                                                    display




Site: 2030 AM With Project
N:\KOA11\B14055 La Costa Road Evaulation-Phase II\July 2011\LOS Analysis\Sidra\Romeria St.aap
Processed Jul 08, 2011 11:13:09AM

A1620, KOA Corporation, Small Office
Produced by SIDRA Intersection 3.1.061208.34
Copyright 2000-2006 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd
www.sidrasolutions.com
Table R.0 - Roundabout Basic Parameters

 La Costa Ave   Romeria St
 2030 AM With Project
 Intersection ID: 3
 Roundabout

 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
                                             Circulating/Exiting Stream
  Cent Circ Insc No.of No.of Av.Ent --------------------------------
--------
 Island Width Diam. Circ. Entry Lane    Flow %HV Adjust. %Exit Cap.
O-D
  Diam              Lanes Lanes Width (veh/        Flow    Incl.
Constr. Factor
  (ft) (ft) (ft)                (ft)     h)        (pcu/h)       Effect
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00     20   0.0     20     0     N
0.996
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
 South: S Romeria St
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00    423   0.0    423     0     N
0.987
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
 East: E La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00     55   0.0     55     0     N
0.992
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
 North: N Romeria St
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00    664   0.0    664     0     N
0.949
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
Table S.15 - Capacity and Level of Service

 La Costa Ave   Romeria St
 2030 AM With Project
 Intersection ID: 3
 Roundabout

 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  Mov     Mov    Total Total     Deg.   Aver.   LOS Longest Queue
  ID      Typ    Flow    Cap.     of    Delay          95% Back
                 (veh   (veh     Satn                 (vehs) (ft)
                   /h)    /h)    (v/c) (sec)
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   5L L              2      7   0.286    11.9    A      2.4     59
   2T T            403   1483   0.272     6.8    A      2.4     59
   2R R             14     52   0.269     7.7    A      2.4     59
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 South: S Romeria St
   3L L             52    824   0.063    14.0    A      0.4     10
   8T T              1     16   0.062     8.9    A      0.4     10
   8R R              6     95   0.063     9.8    A      0.4     10
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 East: E La Costa Ave
   1L L              1      2   0.500*   12.2    A      4.3    106
   6T T            612   1422   0.430     7.0    A      4.3    106
   6R R              6     14   0.429     7.9    A      4.3    106
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 North: N Romeria St
   7L L             18    424   0.042    15.7    A      0.3      7
   4T T              1     24   0.042    10.5    A      0.3      7
   4R R             13    306   0.042    11.4    A      0.3      7
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  ALL VEHICLES:   1129          0.500            A      4.3    106
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
      Level of Service calculations are based on
      v/c ratio (ICU criteria),
      independent of the current delay definition used.
      For the criteria, refer to the "Level of Service" topic in the
      SIDRA Output Guide or the Output section of the on-line help.
   * Maximum v/c ratio, or critical green periods
   " Movement Level of service has been determined using adjacent lane
      v/c ratio rather than short lane v/c ratio (v/c=1.0)
Intersection Capacity Utilization
9: La Costa Avenue & Cadencia St                                                                     Timing Plan: AM



Movement                 EBL      EBT    EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)               38     364       5       12     430      25       5       4      17      49       2     100
Pedestrians
Ped Button
Pedestrian Timing (s)
Free Right                                 No                       No                      No                      No
Ideal Flow              1900     1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Lost Time (s)             4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Minimum Green (s)         5.0      8.0     8.0      5.0     8.0     8.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0
Refr Cycle Length (s)    120
Volume Combined (vph)      38     364        5       12    430       25      0        9      17      0       51    100
Lane Utilization Factor  1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00
Turning Factor (vph)     0.95     1.00    0.85     0.95    1.00    0.85   0.95     0.97    0.85   0.95     0.95    0.85
Saturated Flow (vph)    1805     1900    1615     1805    1900    1615       0    1847    1615       0    1809    1615
Ped Intf Time (s)         0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
Pedestrian Frequency (%)          0.00                     0.00                    0.00                    0.00
Protected Option Allowed          Yes                      Yes                      No                      No
Reference Time (s)        2.5     23.0    0.4      0.8     27.2    1.9                     1.3                     7.4
Adj Reference Time (s)    9.0     27.0   12.0      9.0     31.2   12.0                     9.0                    11.4
Permitted Option
Adj Saturation A (vph)   120     1900             120     1900               0     193               0    124
Reference Time A (s)     37.9     23.0            12.0     27.2            0.0      5.6            0.0    49.5
Adj Saturation B (vph     NA       NA              NA       NA               0        0              0       0
Reference Time B (s)      NA       NA              NA       NA             8.3      8.6           11.3    11.4
Reference Time (s)                37.9                     27.2                     5.6                   11.4
Adj Reference Time (s)            41.9                     31.2                     9.6                   15.4
Split Option
Ref Time Combined (s)     2.5     23.0             0.8    27.2             0.0     0.6             0.0     3.4
Ref Time Seperate (s)     2.5     23.0             0.8    27.2             0.3     0.3             3.3     0.1
Reference Time (s)       23.0     23.0            27.2    27.2             0.6     0.6             3.4     3.4
Adj Reference Time (s) 27.0       27.0            31.2    31.2             9.0     9.0             9.0     9.0
Summary                         EB WB            NB SB      Combined
Protected Option (s)              40.2              NA
Permitted Option (s)              41.9            15.4
Split Option (s)                  58.1            18.0
Minimum (s)                       40.2            15.4            55.5
Right Turns                       EBR    WBR      NBR     SBR
Adj Reference Time (s)            12.0   12.0      9.0    11.4
Cross Thru Ref Time (s)            9.0    9.0     27.0    31.2
Oncoming Left Ref Time (s)         9.0    9.0      9.0     9.0
Combined (s)                      30.0   30.0     45.0    51.6
Intersection Summary
Intersection Capacity Utilization   46.3%        ICU Level of Service                        A
Reference Times and Phasing Options do not represent an optimized timing plan.




2030 AM with Project                                                                                Synchro 6 Report
KOA Corporation. Formerly                                                                                    Page 2
Katz, Okitsu & Associates
Input Volumes
Total flow rates as given by the user (veh/60 min)

La Costa Ave Nueva Castilla Way - 2030 PM With Project

                                                                                  Intersection
                                                                                      Type
                                                                                    Roundabout



                                                                                    No color
                                                                                   code in this
                                                                                     display




Site: 2030 PM With Project
N:\KOA11\B14055 La Costa Road Evaulation-Phase II\July 2011\LOS Analysis\Sidra\Nueva Castilla
Wy.aap
Processed Jul 08, 2011 11:06:28AM

A1620, KOA Corporation, Small Office
Produced by SIDRA Intersection 3.1.061208.34
Copyright 2000-2006 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd
www.sidrasolutions.com
Table R.0 - Roundabout Basic Parameters

 La Costa Ave   Nueva Castilla Way
 2030 PM With Project
 Intersection ID: 1
 Roundabout

 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
                                             Circulating/Exiting Stream
  Cent Circ Insc No.of No.of Av.Ent --------------------------------
--------
 Island Width Diam. Circ. Entry Lane    Flow %HV Adjust. %Exit Cap.
O-D
  Diam              Lanes Lanes Width (veh/        Flow    Incl.
Constr. Factor
  (ft) (ft) (ft)                (ft)     h)        (pcu/h)       Effect
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00     15   0.0     15     0     N
0.999
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
 South: Nueva Castillo
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00   1073   0.0   1073     0     N
0.925
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
 East: E. La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00     33   0.0     33     0     N
0.992
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
Table S.15 - Capacity and Level of Service

 La Costa Ave   Nueva Castilla Way
 2030 PM With Project
 Intersection ID: 1
 Roundabout

 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  Mov     Mov    Total Total     Deg.   Aver.   LOS Longest Queue
  ID      Typ    Flow    Cap.     of    Delay          95% Back
                 (veh   (veh     Satn                 (vehs) (ft)
                   /h)    /h)    (v/c) (sec)
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   2T T           1073   1523   0.705*    6.8    C     10.8    270
   2R R             86    122   0.705*    7.7    C     10.8    270
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 South: Nueva Castillo
   3L L             33    356   0.093    21.4    A      0.7     18
   8R R             14    151   0.093    17.1    A      0.7     18
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 East: E. La Costa Ave
   1L L             15     34   0.441    12.0    A      4.9    122
   6T T            652   1483   0.440     6.9    A      4.9    122
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  ALL VEHICLES:   1873          0.705            C     10.8    270
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
      Level of Service calculations are based on
      v/c ratio (ICU criteria),
      independent of the current delay definition used.
      For the criteria, refer to the "Level of Service" topic in the
      SIDRA Output Guide or the Output section of the on-line help.
   * Maximum v/c ratio, or critical green periods
   " Movement Level of service has been determined using adjacent lane
      v/c ratio rather than short lane v/c ratio (v/c=1.0)
Intersection Capacity Utilization
4: La Costa Avenue & Viejo Castilla Wy                                               Timing Plan: PM



Movement                 EBL      EBT    WBT     WBR     SBL     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)               95     936     569      46      14      59
Pedestrians
Ped Button
Pedestrian Timing (s)
Free Right                                         No              No
Ideal Flow              1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Lost Time (s)             4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Minimum Green (s)         5.0      8.0     8.0     8.0     5.0     5.0
Refr Cycle Length (s)    120
Volume Combined (vph)      95     936     569       46      14      59
Lane Utilization Factor  1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Turning Factor (vph)     0.95     1.00    1.00    0.85    0.95    0.85
Saturated Flow (vph)    1805     1900    1900    1615    1805    1615
Ped Intf Time (s)         0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Pedestrian Frequency (%)          0.00    0.00            0.00
Protected Option Allowed          Yes     Yes              No
Reference Time (s)        6.3     59.1    35.9    3.4             4.4
Adj Reference Time (s) 10.3       63.1    39.9   12.0             9.0
Permitted Option
Adj Saturation A (vph)   120     1900    1900            120
Reference Time A (s)     94.7     59.1    35.9           14.0
Adj Saturation B (vph     NA       NA      NA             NA
Reference Time B (s)      NA       NA      NA             NA
Reference Time (s)                94.7    35.9
Adj Reference Time (s)            98.7    39.9
Split Option
Ref Time Combined (s)     6.3     59.1   35.9             0.9
Ref Time Seperate (s)     6.3     59.1   35.9             0.9
Reference Time (s)       59.1     59.1   35.9             0.9
Adj Reference Time (s) 63.1       63.1   39.9             9.0
Summary                         EB WB             SB       Combined
Protected Option (s)              63.1            NA
Permitted Option (s)              98.7            Err
Split Option (s)                 103.1            9.0
Minimum (s)                       63.1            9.0            72.1
Right Turns                      WBR     SBR
Adj Reference Time (s)           12.0     9.0
Cross Thru Ref Time (s)           0.0    39.9
Oncoming Left Ref Time (s)       10.3     0.0
Combined (s)                     22.3    48.9
Intersection Summary
Intersection Capacity Utilization   60.1%        ICU Level of Service            B
Reference Times and Phasing Options do not represent an optimized timing plan.




2030 PM with Project                                                                 Synchro 6 Report
KOA Corporation. Formerly                                                                     Page 1
Katz, Okitsu & Associates
Input Volumes
Total flow rates as given by the user (veh/60 min)

La Costa Ave Romeria St - 2030 PM With Project

                                                                                 Intersection
                                                                                     Type
                                                                                   Roundabout



                                                                                   No color
                                                                                  code in this
                                                                                    display




Site: 2030 PM With Project
N:\KOA11\B14055 La Costa Road Evaulation-Phase II\July 2011\LOS Analysis\Sidra\Romeria St.aap
Processed Jul 08, 2011 11:13:09AM

A1620, KOA Corporation, Small Office
Produced by SIDRA Intersection 3.1.061208.34
Copyright 2000-2006 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd
www.sidrasolutions.com
Table R.0 - Roundabout Basic Parameters

 La Costa Ave   Romeria St
 2030 PM With Project
 Intersection ID: 3
 Roundabout

 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
                                             Circulating/Exiting Stream
  Cent Circ Insc No.of No.of Av.Ent --------------------------------
--------
 Island Width Diam. Circ. Entry Lane    Flow %HV Adjust. %Exit Cap.
O-D
  Diam              Lanes Lanes Width (veh/        Flow    Incl.
Constr. Factor
  (ft) (ft) (ft)                (ft)     h)        (pcu/h)       Effect
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00     18   0.0     18     0     N
0.997
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
 South: S Romeria St
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00    868   0.0    868     0     N
0.948
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
 East: E La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00     59   0.0     59     0     N
0.991
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
 North: N Romeria St
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00    513   0.0    513     0     N
0.967
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
--------
Table S.15 - Capacity and Level of Service

 La Costa Ave   Romeria St
 2030 PM With Project
 Intersection ID: 3
 Roundabout

 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  Mov     Mov    Total Total     Deg.   Aver.   LOS Longest Queue
  ID      Typ    Flow    Cap.     of    Delay          95% Back
                 (veh   (veh     Satn                 (vehs) (ft)
                   /h)    /h)    (v/c) (sec)
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   5L L             14     25   0.560    11.9    A      6.9    173
   2T T            841   1501   0.560     6.8    A      6.9    173
   2R R             49     87   0.563*    7.7    A      6.9    173
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 South: S Romeria St
   3L L             44    432   0.102    18.0    A      0.8     19
   8T T              1     10   0.100    12.9    A      0.8     19
   8R R             20    196   0.102    13.8    A      0.8     19
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 East: E La Costa Ave
   1L L              2      6   0.333    12.2    A      3.2     80
   6T T            466   1328   0.351     7.0    A      3.2     80
   6R R             25     71   0.352     7.9    A      3.2     80
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 North: N Romeria St
   7L L             14    429   0.033    14.5    A      0.2      5
   4T T              2     61   0.033     9.4    A      0.2      5
   4R R             12    368   0.033    10.3    A      0.2      5
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  ALL VEHICLES:   1490          0.563            A      6.9    173
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
      Level of Service calculations are based on
      v/c ratio (ICU criteria),
      independent of the current delay definition used.
      For the criteria, refer to the "Level of Service" topic in the
      SIDRA Output Guide or the Output section of the on-line help.
   * Maximum v/c ratio, or critical green periods
   " Movement Level of service has been determined using adjacent lane
      v/c ratio rather than short lane v/c ratio (v/c=1.0)
Intersection Capacity Utilization
9: La Costa Avenue & Cadencia St                                                                     Timing Plan: PM



Movement                 EBL      EBT    EBR      WBL     WBT     WBR     NBL     NBT     NBR     SBL     SBT     SBR
Lane Configurations
Volume (vph)               74     607      16       16     378      58      10       4      22      44      12      52
Pedestrians
Ped Button
Pedestrian Timing (s)
Free Right                                 No                       No                      No                      No
Ideal Flow              1900     1900    1900     1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900    1900
Lost Time (s)             4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0     4.0
Minimum Green (s)         5.0      8.0     8.0      5.0     8.0     8.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0
Refr Cycle Length (s)    120
Volume Combined (vph)      74     607       16       16    378       58      0       14      22      0       56      52
Lane Utilization Factor  1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00   1.00     1.00    1.00
Turning Factor (vph)     0.95     1.00    0.85     0.95    1.00    0.85   0.95     0.96    0.85   0.95     0.96    0.85
Saturated Flow (vph)    1805     1900    1615     1805    1900    1615       0    1832    1615       0    1825    1615
Ped Intf Time (s)         0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
Pedestrian Frequency (%)          0.00                     0.00                    0.00                    0.00
Protected Option Allowed          Yes                      Yes                      No                      No
Reference Time (s)        4.9     38.3    1.2      1.1     23.9    4.3                     1.6                     3.9
Adj Reference Time (s)    9.0     42.3   12.0      9.0     27.9   12.0                     9.0                     9.0
Permitted Option
Adj Saturation A (vph)   120     1900             120     1900               0    156                0    144
Reference Time A (s)     73.8     38.3            16.0     23.9            0.0    10.8             0.0    46.6
Adj Saturation B (vph     NA       NA              NA       NA               0       0               0       0
Reference Time B (s)      NA       NA              NA       NA             8.7     8.9            10.9    11.7
Reference Time (s)                73.8                     23.9                    8.9                    11.7
Adj Reference Time (s)            77.8                     27.9                   12.9                    15.7
Split Option
Ref Time Combined (s)     4.9     38.3             1.1    23.9             0.0     0.9             0.0     3.7
Ref Time Seperate (s)     4.9     38.3             1.1    23.9             0.7     0.3             2.9     0.8
Reference Time (s)       38.3     38.3            23.9    23.9             0.9     0.9             3.7     3.7
Adj Reference Time (s) 42.3       42.3            27.9    27.9             9.0     9.0             9.0     9.0
Summary                         EB WB            NB SB      Combined
Protected Option (s)              51.3              NA
Permitted Option (s)              77.8            15.7
Split Option (s)                  70.2            18.0
Minimum (s)                       51.3            15.7            67.0
Right Turns                       EBR    WBR      NBR     SBR
Adj Reference Time (s)            12.0   12.0      9.0     9.0
Cross Thru Ref Time (s)            9.0    9.0     42.3    27.9
Oncoming Left Ref Time (s)         9.0    9.0      9.0     9.0
Combined (s)                      30.0   30.0     60.3    45.9
Intersection Summary
Intersection Capacity Utilization   55.8%        ICU Level of Service                        B
Reference Times and Phasing Options do not represent an optimized timing plan.




2030 PM with Project                                                                                Synchro 6 Report
KOA Corporation. Formerly                                                                                    Page 2
Katz, Okitsu & Associates
Additional Roundabout Locations
Input Volumes
Total flow rates as given by the user (veh/60 min)

La Costa Ave Cadencia St

Ex AM With Project

                                                                                                      Intersection
                                                                                                          Type
                                                                                                           Roundabout



                                                                                                    No color code in
                                                                                                      this display




Site: Ex AM With Project
N:\KOA11\B14055 La Costa Road Evaulation-Phase II\Deliverables\July 2011\LOS Analysis\Sidra\Cadencia.aap
Processed Aug 15, 2011 01:17:44PM

A1620, KOA Corporation, Small Office
Produced by SIDRA Intersection 3.1.061208.34
Copyright 2000-2006 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd
www.sidrasolutions.com
Table R.0 - Roundabout Basic Parameters

 La Costa Ave   Cadencia St
 Ex AM With Project
 Intersection ID: 3
 Roundabout
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             Circulating/Exiting Stream
  Cent Circ Insc No.of No.of Av.Ent ----------------------------------------
 Island Width Diam. Circ. Entry Lane    Flow %HV Adjust. %Exit Cap.       O-D
  Diam              Lanes Lanes Width (veh/        Flow    Incl. Constr. Factor
  (ft) (ft) (ft)                (ft)     h)        (pcu/h)       Effect
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00     56   0.0     56     0     N    0.993
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 South: Cadencia St
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00    396   0.0    396     0     N    0.981
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 East: E La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00     41   0.0     41     0     N    0.998
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 North: Cadencia St
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00    392   0.0    392     0     N    0.983
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table S.15 - Capacity and Level of Service

 La Costa Ave   Cadencia St
 Ex AM With Project
 Intersection ID: 3
 Roundabout
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  Mov     Mov    Total Total     Deg.   Aver.   LOS Longest Queue
  ID      Typ    Flow    Cap.     of    Delay          95% Back
                 (veh   (veh     Satn                 (vehs) (ft)
                   /h)    /h)    (v/c) (sec)
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   5L L             34    132   0.258    12.1    A      2.1     51
   2T T            319   1242   0.257     7.0    A      2.1     51
   2R R              4     16   0.250     7.9    A      2.1     51
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 South: Cadencia St
   3L L              4    172   0.023    13.8    A      0.1      4
   8T T              3    129   0.023     8.6    A      0.1      4
   8R R             15    646   0.023     9.5    A      0.1      4
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 East: E La Costa Ave
   1L L             11     39   0.282*   12.0    A      2.2     55
   6T T            377   1336   0.282*    6.9    A      2.2     55
   6R R             22     78   0.282*    7.8    A      2.2     55
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 North: Cadencia St
   7L L             43    310   0.139    14.0    A      0.9     23
   4T T              2     14   0.143     8.9    A      0.9     23
   4R R             87    628   0.139     9.8    A      0.9     23
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  ALL VEHICLES:    921          0.282            A      2.2     55
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
      Level of Service calculations are based on
      v/c ratio (ICU criteria),
      independent of the current delay definition used.
      For the criteria, refer to the "Level of Service" topic in the
      SIDRA Output Guide or the Output section of the on-line help.
   * Maximum v/c ratio, or critical green periods
   " Movement Level of service has been determined using adjacent lane
      v/c ratio rather than short lane v/c ratio (v/c=1.0)
Input Volumes
Total flow rates as given by the user (veh/60 min)

La Costa Ave Cadencia St

Ex PM With Project

                                                                                                      Intersection
                                                                                                          Type
                                                                                                           Roundabout



                                                                                                    No color code in
                                                                                                      this display




Site: Ex PM With Project
N:\KOA11\B14055 La Costa Road Evaulation-Phase II\Deliverables\July 2011\LOS Analysis\Sidra\Cadencia.aap
Processed Aug 15, 2011 01:17:44PM

A1620, KOA Corporation, Small Office
Produced by SIDRA Intersection 3.1.061208.34
Copyright 2000-2006 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd
www.sidrasolutions.com
Table R.0 - Roundabout Basic Parameters

 La Costa Ave   Cadencia St
 Ex PM With Project
 Intersection ID: 3
 Roundabout

 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             Circulating/Exiting Stream
  Cent Circ Insc No.of No.of Av.Ent ----------------------------------------
 Island Width Diam. Circ. Entry Lane    Flow %HV Adjust. %Exit Cap.       O-D
  Diam              Lanes Lanes Width (veh/        Flow    Incl. Constr. Factor
  (ft) (ft) (ft)                (ft)     h)        (pcu/h)       Effect
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00     63   0.0     63     0     N    0.993
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 South: Cadencia St
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00    637   0.0    637     0     N    0.949
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 East: E La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00     77   0.0     77     0     N    0.995
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 North: Cadencia St
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00    354   0.0    354     0     N    0.978
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table S.15 - Capacity and Level of Service

 La Costa Ave   Cadencia St
 Ex PM With Project
 Intersection ID: 3
 Roundabout

 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  Mov     Mov    Total Total     Deg.   Aver.   LOS Longest Queue
  ID      Typ    Flow    Cap.     of    Delay          95% Back
                 (veh   (veh     Satn                 (vehs) (ft)
                   /h)    /h)    (v/c) (sec)
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   5L L             65    150   0.433    12.2    A      4.2    104
   2T T            533   1233   0.432     7.1    A      4.2    104
   2R R             14     32   0.438*    8.0    A      4.2    104
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 South: Cadencia St
   3L L              8    205   0.039    15.4    A      0.3      7
   8T T              3     77   0.039    10.3    A      0.3      7
   8R R             19    487   0.039    11.2    A      0.3      7
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 East: E La Costa Ave
   1L L             14     48   0.292    12.3    A      2.3     58
   6T T            332   1128   0.294     7.1    A      2.3     58
   6R R             51    173   0.295     8.0    A      2.3     58
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 North: Cadencia St
   7L L             39    400   0.097    13.7    A      0.7     16
   4T T             11    113   0.097     8.6    A      0.7     16
   4R R             45    461   0.098     9.4    A      0.7     16
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  ALL VEHICLES:   1134          0.438            A      4.2    104
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
      Level of Service calculations are based on
      v/c ratio (ICU criteria),
      independent of the current delay definition used.
      For the criteria, refer to the "Level of Service" topic in the
      SIDRA Output Guide or the Output section of the on-line help.
   * Maximum v/c ratio, or critical green periods
   " Movement Level of service has been determined using adjacent lane
      v/c ratio rather than short lane v/c ratio (v/c=1.0)
Input Volumes
Total flow rates as given by the user (veh/60 min)

La Costa Ave Cadencia St

2030 AM With Project

                                                                                                      Intersection
                                                                                                          Type
                                                                                                           Roundabout



                                                                                                    No color code in
                                                                                                      this display




Site: 2030 AM With Project
N:\KOA11\B14055 La Costa Road Evaulation-Phase II\Deliverables\July 2011\LOS Analysis\Sidra\Cadencia.aap
Processed Aug 15, 2011 01:17:45PM

A1620, KOA Corporation, Small Office
Produced by SIDRA Intersection 3.1.061208.34
Copyright 2000-2006 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd
www.sidrasolutions.com
Table R.0 - Roundabout Basic Parameters

 La Costa Ave   Cadencia St
 2030 AM With Project
 Intersection ID: 3
 Roundabout

 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             Circulating/Exiting Stream
  Cent Circ Insc No.of No.of Av.Ent ----------------------------------------
 Island Width Diam. Circ. Entry Lane    Flow %HV Adjust. %Exit Cap.       O-D
  Diam              Lanes Lanes Width (veh/        Flow    Incl. Constr. Factor
  (ft) (ft) (ft)                (ft)     h)        (pcu/h)       Effect
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00     66   0.0     66     0     N    0.991
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 South: Cadencia St
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00    475   0.0    475     0     N    0.972
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 East: E La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00     49   0.0     49     0     N    0.997
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 North: Cadencia St
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00    471   0.0    471     0     N    0.975
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table S.15 - Capacity and Level of Service

 La Costa Ave   Cadencia St
 2030 AM With Project
 Intersection ID: 3
 Roundabout

 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  Mov     Mov    Total Total     Deg.   Aver.   LOS Longest Queue
  ID      Typ    Flow    Cap.     of    Delay          95% Back
                 (veh   (veh     Satn                 (vehs) (ft)
                   /h)    /h)    (v/c) (sec)
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   5L L             40    129   0.310    12.2    A      2.6     66
   2T T            383   1233   0.311     7.1    A      2.6     66
   2R R              4     13   0.308     7.9    A      2.6     66
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 South: Cadencia St
   3L L              5    164   0.030    14.2    A      0.2      5
   8T T              4    131   0.031     9.1    A      0.2      5
   8R R             18    591   0.030    10.0    A      0.2      5
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 East: E La Costa Ave
   1L L             13     38   0.342*   12.1    A      2.8     71
   6T T            453   1326   0.342*    7.0    A      2.8     71
   6R R             26     76   0.342*    7.9    A      2.8     71
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 North: Cadencia St
   7L L             52    292   0.178    14.6    A      1.3     31
   4T T              2     11   0.182     9.5    A      1.3     31
   4R R            105    589   0.178    10.4    A      1.3     31
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  ALL VEHICLES:   1105          0.342            A      2.8     71
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
      Level of Service calculations are based on
      v/c ratio (ICU criteria),
      independent of the current delay definition used.
      For the criteria, refer to the "Level of Service" topic in the
      SIDRA Output Guide or the Output section of the on-line help.
   * Maximum v/c ratio, or critical green periods
   " Movement Level of service has been determined using adjacent lane
      v/c ratio rather than short lane v/c ratio (v/c=1.0)
Input Volumes
Total flow rates as given by the user (veh/60 min)

La Costa Ave Cadencia St

2030 PM With Project

                                                                                                      Intersection
                                                                                                          Type
                                                                                                           Roundabout



                                                                                                    No color code in
                                                                                                      this display




Site: 2030 PM With Project
N:\KOA11\B14055 La Costa Road Evaulation-Phase II\Deliverables\July 2011\LOS Analysis\Sidra\Cadencia.aap
Processed Aug 15, 2011 01:17:45PM

A1620, KOA Corporation, Small Office
Produced by SIDRA Intersection 3.1.061208.34
Copyright 2000-2006 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd
www.sidrasolutions.com
Table R.0 - Roundabout Basic Parameters

 La Costa Ave   Cadencia St
 2030 PM With Project
 Intersection ID: 3
 Roundabout

 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             Circulating/Exiting Stream
  Cent Circ Insc No.of No.of Av.Ent ----------------------------------------
 Island Width Diam. Circ. Entry Lane    Flow %HV Adjust. %Exit Cap.       O-D
  Diam              Lanes Lanes Width (veh/        Flow    Incl. Constr. Factor
  (ft) (ft) (ft)                (ft)     h)        (pcu/h)       Effect
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00     76   0.0     76     0     N    0.991
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 South: Cadencia St
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00    763   0.0    763     0     N    0.914
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 East: E La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00     93   0.0     93     0     N    0.993
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 North: Cadencia St
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00    425   0.0    425     0     N    0.967
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table S.15 - Capacity and Level of Service

 La Costa Ave   Cadencia St
 2030 PM With Project
 Intersection ID: 3
 Roundabout

 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  Mov     Mov    Total Total     Deg.   Aver.   LOS Longest Queue
  ID      Typ    Flow    Cap.     of    Delay          95% Back
                 (veh   (veh     Satn                 (vehs) (ft)
                   /h)    /h)    (v/c) (sec)
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   5L L             78    149   0.523    12.4    A      5.7    143
   2T T            639   1217   0.525     7.3    A      5.7    143
   2R R             17     32   0.531*    8.2    A      5.7    143
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 South: Cadencia St
   3L L             11    194   0.057    16.6    A      0.4     10
   8T T              4     71   0.056    11.5    A      0.4     10
   8R R             23    407   0.057    12.4    A      0.4     10
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 East: E La Costa Ave
   1L L             17     47   0.362    12.4    A      3.1     76
   6T T            398   1110   0.359     7.3    A      3.1     76
   6R R             61    170   0.359     8.1    A      3.1     76
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 North: Cadencia St
   7L L             46    369   0.125    14.2    A      0.9     22
   4T T             13    104   0.125     9.1    A      0.9     22
   4R R             55    441   0.125     9.9    A      0.9     22
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  ALL VEHICLES:   1362          0.531            A      5.7    143
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
      Level of Service calculations are based on
      v/c ratio (ICU criteria),
      independent of the current delay definition used.
      For the criteria, refer to the "Level of Service" topic in the
      SIDRA Output Guide or the Output section of the on-line help.
   * Maximum v/c ratio, or critical green periods
   " Movement Level of service has been determined using adjacent lane
      v/c ratio rather than short lane v/c ratio (v/c=1.0)
Input Volumes
Total flow rates as given by the user (veh/60 min)

La Costa Ave Calle Madero

Ex AM With Project

                                                                                               Intersection
                                                                                                   Type
                                                                                                  Roundabout



                                                                                              No color code
                                                                                              in this display




Site: Ex AM With Project
N:\KOA11\B14055 La Costa Road Evaulation-Phase II\Deliverables\July 2011\LOS Analysis\Sidra\Calle Madero.aap
Processed Aug 15, 2011 01:35:44PM

A1620, KOA Corporation, Small Office
Produced by SIDRA Intersection 3.1.061208.34
Copyright 2000-2006 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd
www.sidrasolutions.com
Table R.0 - Roundabout Basic Parameters

 La Costa Ave   Calle Madero
 Ex AM With Project
 Intersection ID: 1
 Roundabout

 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             Circulating/Exiting Stream
  Cent Circ Insc No.of No.of Av.Ent ----------------------------------------
 Island Width Diam. Circ. Entry Lane    Flow %HV Adjust. %Exit Cap.       O-D
  Diam              Lanes Lanes Width (veh/        Flow    Incl. Constr. Factor
  (ft) (ft) (ft)                (ft)     h)        (pcu/h)       Effect
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00     20   0.0     20     0     N    0.998
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 South: Calle Madero
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00    474   0.0    474     0     N    0.985
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 East: E. La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00     39   0.0     39     0     N    0.994
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table S.15 - Capacity and Level of Service

 La Costa Ave   Calle Madero
 Ex AM With Project
 Intersection ID: 1
 Roundabout

 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  Mov     Mov    Total Total     Deg.   Aver.   LOS Longest Queue
  ID      Typ    Flow    Cap.     of    Delay          95% Back
                 (veh   (veh     Satn                 (vehs) (ft)
                   /h)    /h)    (v/c) (sec)
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   2T T            474   1476   0.321     6.8    A      2.7     67
   2R R             27     84   0.321     7.7    A      2.7     67
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 South: Calle Madero
   3L L             39    662   0.059    14.3    A      0.4     10
   8R R             14    238   0.059    10.1    A      0.4     10
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 East: E. La Costa Ave
   1L L             20     34   0.588*   12.1    A      7.4    186
   6T T            871   1487   0.586     7.0    A      7.4    186
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  ALL VEHICLES:   1445          0.588            A      7.4    186
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
      Level of Service calculations are based on
      v/c ratio (ICU criteria),
      independent of the current delay definition used.
      For the criteria, refer to the "Level of Service" topic in the
      SIDRA Output Guide or the Output section of the on-line help.
   * Maximum v/c ratio, or critical green periods
   " Movement Level of service has been determined using adjacent lane
      v/c ratio rather than short lane v/c ratio (v/c=1.0)
Input Volumes
Total flow rates as given by the user (veh/60 min)

La Costa Ave Calle Madero

Ex PM With Project

                                                                                               Intersection
                                                                                                   Type
                                                                                                  Roundabout



                                                                                              No color code
                                                                                              in this display




Site: Ex PM With Project
N:\KOA11\B14055 La Costa Road Evaulation-Phase II\Deliverables\July 2011\LOS Analysis\Sidra\Calle Madero.aap
Processed Aug 15, 2011 01:39:23PM

A1620, KOA Corporation, Small Office
Produced by SIDRA Intersection 3.1.061208.34
Copyright 2000-2006 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd
www.sidrasolutions.com
Table R.0 - Roundabout Basic Parameters

 La Costa Ave   Calle Madero
 Ex PM With Project
 Intersection ID: 1
 Roundabout

 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             Circulating/Exiting Stream
  Cent Circ Insc No.of No.of Av.Ent ----------------------------------------
 Island Width Diam. Circ. Entry Lane    Flow %HV Adjust. %Exit Cap.       O-D
  Diam              Lanes Lanes Width (veh/        Flow    Incl. Constr. Factor
  (ft) (ft) (ft)                (ft)     h)        (pcu/h)       Effect
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00      8   0.0      8     0     N    1.000
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 South: Calle Madero
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00    796   0.0    796     0     N    0.976
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 East: E. La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00     20   0.0     20     0     N    0.996
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table S.15 - Capacity and Level of Service

 La Costa Ave   Calle Madero
 Ex PM With Project
 Intersection ID: 1
 Roundabout

 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  Mov     Mov    Total Total     Deg.   Aver.   LOS Longest Queue
  ID      Typ    Flow    Cap.     of    Delay          95% Back
                 (veh   (veh     Satn                 (vehs) (ft)
                   /h)    /h)    (v/c) (sec)
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   2T T            796   1598   0.498     6.7    A      5.1    126
   2R R             34     68   0.500*    7.6    A      5.1    126
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 South: Calle Madero
   3L L             20    499   0.040    16.9    A      0.3      7
   8R R              8    200   0.040    12.6    A      0.3      7
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 East: E. La Costa Ave
   1L L              8     24   0.333    11.9    A      3.2     80
   6T T            517   1537   0.336     6.8    A      3.2     80
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  ALL VEHICLES:   1383          0.500            A      5.1    126
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
      Level of Service calculations are based on
      v/c ratio (ICU criteria),
      independent of the current delay definition used.
      For the criteria, refer to the "Level of Service" topic in the
      SIDRA Output Guide or the Output section of the on-line help.
   * Maximum v/c ratio, or critical green periods
   " Movement Level of service has been determined using adjacent lane
      v/c ratio rather than short lane v/c ratio (v/c=1.0)
Input Volumes
Total flow rates as given by the user (veh/60 min)

La Costa Ave Calle Madero

2030 AM With Project

                                                                                               Intersection
                                                                                                   Type
                                                                                                  Roundabout



                                                                                              No color code
                                                                                              in this display




Site: 2030 AM With Project
N:\KOA11\B14055 La Costa Road Evaulation-Phase II\Deliverables\July 2011\LOS Analysis\Sidra\Calle Madero.aap
Processed Aug 15, 2011 09:46:31AM

A1620, KOA Corporation, Small Office
Produced by SIDRA Intersection 3.1.061208.34
Copyright 2000-2006 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd
www.sidrasolutions.com
Table R.0 - Roundabout Basic Parameters

 La Costa Ave   Calle Madero
 2030 AM With Project
 Intersection ID: 1
 Roundabout

 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             Circulating/Exiting Stream
  Cent Circ Insc No.of No.of Av.Ent ----------------------------------------
 Island Width Diam. Circ. Entry Lane    Flow %HV Adjust. %Exit Cap.       O-D
  Diam              Lanes Lanes Width (veh/        Flow    Incl. Constr. Factor
  (ft) (ft) (ft)                (ft)     h)        (pcu/h)       Effect
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00     24   0.0     24     0     N    0.997
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 South: Calle Madero
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00    568   0.0    568     0     N    0.976
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 East: E. La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00     46   0.0     46     0     N    0.992
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table S.15 - Capacity and Level of Service

 La Costa Ave   Calle Madero
 2030 AM With Project
 Intersection ID: 1
 Roundabout

 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  Mov     Mov    Total Total     Deg.   Aver.   LOS Longest Queue
  ID      Typ    Flow    Cap.     of    Delay          95% Back
                 (veh   (veh     Satn                 (vehs) (ft)
                   /h)    /h)    (v/c) (sec)
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   2T T            568   1467   0.387     6.8    A      3.6     90
   2R R             33     85   0.388     7.7    A      3.6     90
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 South: Calle Madero
   3L L             46    607   0.076    15.0    A      0.5     13
   8R R             17    224   0.076    10.8    A      0.5     13
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 East: E. La Costa Ave
   1L L             24     34   0.706    12.3    C     11.3    284
   6T T           1044   1475   0.708*    7.2    C     11.3    284
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  ALL VEHICLES:   1732          0.708            C     11.3    284
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
      Level of Service calculations are based on
      v/c ratio (ICU criteria),
      independent of the current delay definition used.
      For the criteria, refer to the "Level of Service" topic in the
      SIDRA Output Guide or the Output section of the on-line help.
   * Maximum v/c ratio, or critical green periods
   " Movement Level of service has been determined using adjacent lane
      v/c ratio rather than short lane v/c ratio (v/c=1.0)
Input Volumes
Total flow rates as given by the user (veh/60 min)

La Costa Ave Calle Madero

2030 PM With Project

                                                                                               Intersection
                                                                                                   Type
                                                                                                  Roundabout



                                                                                              No color code
                                                                                              in this display




Site: 2030 PM With Project
N:\KOA11\B14055 La Costa Road Evaulation-Phase II\Deliverables\July 2011\LOS Analysis\Sidra\Calle Madero.aap
Processed Aug 15, 2011 09:49:36AM

A1620, KOA Corporation, Small Office
Produced by SIDRA Intersection 3.1.061208.34
Copyright 2000-2006 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd
www.sidrasolutions.com
Table R.0 - Roundabout Basic Parameters

 La Costa Ave   Calle Madero
 2030 PM With Project
 Intersection ID: 1
 Roundabout

 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             Circulating/Exiting Stream
  Cent Circ Insc No.of No.of Av.Ent ----------------------------------------
 Island Width Diam. Circ. Entry Lane    Flow %HV Adjust. %Exit Cap.       O-D
  Diam              Lanes Lanes Width (veh/        Flow    Incl. Constr. Factor
  (ft) (ft) (ft)                (ft)     h)        (pcu/h)       Effect
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00     11   0.0     11     0     N    0.999
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 South: Calle Madero
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00    955   0.0    955     0     N    0.958
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 East: E. La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00     24   0.0     24     0     N    0.994
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table S.15 - Capacity and Level of Service

 La Costa Ave   Calle Madero
 2030 PM With Project
 Intersection ID: 1
 Roundabout

 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  Mov     Mov    Total Total     Deg.   Aver.   LOS Longest Queue
  ID      Typ    Flow    Cap.     of    Delay          95% Back
                 (veh   (veh     Satn                 (vehs) (ft)
                   /h)    /h)    (v/c) (sec)
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   2T T            955   1594   0.599*    6.8    A      7.2    181
   2R R             40     67   0.597     7.7    A      7.2    181
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 South: Calle Madero
   3L L             24    408   0.059    19.0    A      0.4     11
   8R R             11    187   0.059    14.8    A      0.4     11
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 East: E. La Costa Ave
   1L L             11     27   0.407    12.0    A      4.3    107
   6T T            620   1525   0.407     6.8    A      4.3    107
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  ALL VEHICLES:   1661          0.599            A      7.2    181
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
      Level of Service calculations are based on
      v/c ratio (ICU criteria),
      independent of the current delay definition used.
      For the criteria, refer to the "Level of Service" topic in the
      SIDRA Output Guide or the Output section of the on-line help.
   * Maximum v/c ratio, or critical green periods
   " Movement Level of service has been determined using adjacent lane
      v/c ratio rather than short lane v/c ratio (v/c=1.0)
Input Volumes
Total flow rates as given by the user (veh/60 min)

La Costa Ave Gibraltar St

Ex AM With Project

                                                                                                   Intersection
                                                                                                       Type
                                                                                                     Roundabout



                                                                                                  No color code
                                                                                                  in this display




Site: Ex AM With Project
N:\KOA11\B14055 La Costa Road Evaulation-Phase II\Deliverables\July 2011\LOS Analysis\Sidra\Gibraltar.aap
Processed Aug 15, 2011 01:29:53PM

A1620, KOA Corporation, Small Office
Produced by SIDRA Intersection 3.1.061208.34
Copyright 2000-2006 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd
www.sidrasolutions.com
Table R.0 - Roundabout Basic Parameters

 La Costa Ave   Gibraltar St
 Ex AM With Project
 Intersection ID: 1
 Roundabout

 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             Circulating/Exiting Stream
  Cent Circ Insc No.of No.of Av.Ent ----------------------------------------
 Island Width Diam. Circ. Entry Lane    Flow %HV Adjust. %Exit Cap.       O-D
  Diam              Lanes Lanes Width (veh/        Flow    Incl. Constr. Factor
  (ft) (ft) (ft)                (ft)     h)        (pcu/h)       Effect
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00     55   0.0     55     0     N    0.989
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 East: E. La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00      7   0.0      7     0     N    0.999
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 North: Gibraltar St
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00    836   0.0    836     0     N    0.976
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table S.15 - Capacity and Level of Service

 La Costa Ave   Gibraltar St
 Ex AM With Project
 Intersection ID: 1
 Roundabout

 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  Mov     Mov    Total Total     Deg.   Aver.   LOS Longest Queue
  ID      Typ    Flow    Cap.     of    Delay          95% Back
                 (veh   (veh     Satn                 (vehs) (ft)
                   /h)    /h)    (v/c) (sec)
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   5L L              7     20   0.350    12.1    A      3.2     81
   2T T            481   1393   0.345     7.0    A      3.2     81
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 East: E. La Costa Ave
   6T T            836   1667   0.501*    6.7    A      5.3    133
   6R R              3      6   0.500     7.6    A      5.3    133
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 North: Gibraltar St
   7L L             55    652   0.084    17.6    A      0.6     15
   4R R              2     24   0.083    13.3    A      0.6     15
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  ALL VEHICLES:   1384          0.501            A      5.3    133
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
      Level of Service calculations are based on
      v/c ratio (ICU criteria),
      independent of the current delay definition used.
      For the criteria, refer to the "Level of Service" topic in the
      SIDRA Output Guide or the Output section of the on-line help.
   * Maximum v/c ratio, or critical green periods
   " Movement Level of service has been determined using adjacent lane
      v/c ratio rather than short lane v/c ratio (v/c=1.0)
Input Volumes
Total flow rates as given by the user (veh/60 min)

La Costa Ave Gibraltar St

Ex PM With Project

                                                                                                   Intersection
                                                                                                       Type
                                                                                                     Roundabout



                                                                                                  No color code
                                                                                                  in this display




Site: Ex PM With Project
N:\KOA11\B14055 La Costa Road Evaulation-Phase II\Deliverables\July 2011\LOS Analysis\Sidra\Gibraltar.aap
Processed Aug 15, 2011 01:31:08PM

A1620, KOA Corporation, Small Office
Produced by SIDRA Intersection 3.1.061208.34
Copyright 2000-2006 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd
www.sidrasolutions.com
Table R.0 - Roundabout Basic Parameters

 La Costa Ave   Gibraltar St
 Ex PM With Project
 Intersection ID: 1
 Roundabout

 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             Circulating/Exiting Stream
  Cent Circ Insc No.of No.of Av.Ent ----------------------------------------
 Island Width Diam. Circ. Entry Lane    Flow %HV Adjust. %Exit Cap.       O-D
  Diam              Lanes Lanes Width (veh/        Flow    Incl. Constr. Factor
  (ft) (ft) (ft)                (ft)     h)        (pcu/h)       Effect
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00      1   0.0      1     0     N    1.000
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 East: E. La Costa Ave
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00     35   0.0     35     0     N    1.000
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 North: Gibraltar St
   Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
   52    18    88     1     1   13.00    500   0.0    500     0     N    0.979
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table S.15 - Capacity and Level of Service

 La Costa Ave   Gibraltar St
 Ex PM With Project
 Intersection ID: 1
 Roundabout

 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  Mov     Mov    Total Total     Deg.   Aver.   LOS Longest Queue
  ID      Typ    Flow    Cap.     of    Delay          95% Back
                 (veh   (veh     Satn                 (vehs) (ft)
                   /h)    /h)    (v/c) (sec)
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 West: W La Costa Ave
   5L L             35     74   0.473*   11.8    A      5.2    130
   2T T            769   1636   0.470     6.7    A      5.2    130
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 East: E. La Costa Ave
   6T T            500   1479   0.338     6.9    A      2.7     67
   6R R              6     18   0.333     7.8    A      2.7     67
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
 North: Gibraltar St
   7L L              1     31   0.032    14.4    A      0.2      5
   4R R             27    845   0.032    10.2    A      0.2      5
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  ALL VEHICLES:   1338          0.473            A      5.2    130
 -----------------------------------------------------------------
      Level of Service calculations are based on
      v/c ratio (ICU criteria),
      independent of the current delay definition used.
      For the criteria, refer to the "Level of Service" topic in the
      SIDRA Output Guide or the Output section of the on-line help.
   * Maximum v/c ratio, or critical green periods
   " Movement Level of service has been determined using adjacent lane
      v/c ratio rather than short lane v/c ratio (v/c=1.0)
Input Volumes
Total flow rates as given by the user (veh/60 min)

La Costa Ave Gibraltar St

2030 AM With Project

                                                                                                   Intersection
                                                                                                       Type
                                                                                                     Roundabout



                                                                                                  No color code
                                                                                                  in this display




Site: 2030 AM With Project
N:\KOA11\B14055 La Costa Road Evaulation-Phase II\Deliverables\July 2011\LOS Analysis\Sidra\Gibraltar.aap
Processed Aug 15, 2011 10:21:07AM

A1620, KOA Corporation, Small Office
Produced by SIDRA Intersection 3.1.061208.34
Copyright 2000-2006 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd
www.sidrasolutions.com


Table R.0 - Roundabout Basic Parameters

   La Costa Ave   Gibraltar St
   2030 AM With Project
   Intersection ID: 1
   Roundabout

   ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               Circulating/Exiting Stream
    Cent Circ Insc No.of No.of Av.Ent ----------------------------------------
   Island Width Diam. Circ. Entry Lane    Flow %HV Adjust. %Exit Cap.       O-D
    Diam              Lanes Lanes Width (veh/        Flow    Incl. Constr. Factor
    (ft) (ft) (ft)                (ft)     h)        (pcu/h)       Effect
   ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   West: W La Costa Ave
     Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
     52    18    88     1     1   13.00     65   0.0     65     0     N    0.986
   ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   East: E. La Costa Ave
     Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
     52    18    88     1     1   13.00      8   0.0      8     0     N    0.999
   ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   North: Gibraltar St
     Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
     52    18    88     1     1   13.00   1003   0.0   1003     0     N    0.958
   ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table S.15 - Capacity and Level of Service

   La Costa Ave   Gibraltar St
   2030 AM With Project
   Intersection ID: 1
   Roundabout

   -----------------------------------------------------------------
    Mov     Mov    Total Total     Deg.   Aver.   LOS Longest Queue
    ID      Typ    Flow    Cap.     of    Delay          95% Back
                   (veh   (veh     Satn                 (vehs) (ft)
                     /h)    /h)    (v/c) (sec)
   -----------------------------------------------------------------
   West: W La Costa Ave
     5L L              8     19   0.421    12.2    A      4.3    108
     2T T            577   1377   0.419     7.1    A      4.3    108
   -----------------------------------------------------------------
   East: E. La Costa Ave
     6T T           1003   1666   0.602*    6.8    B      7.6    191
     6R R              4      7   0.571     7.6    A      7.6    191
   -----------------------------------------------------------------
   North: Gibraltar St
     7L L             65    550   0.118    20.2    A      0.9     23
     4R R              2     17   0.118    15.9    A      0.9     23
   -----------------------------------------------------------------
    ALL VEHICLES:   1659          0.602            B      7.6    191
   -----------------------------------------------------------------
        Level of Service calculations are based on
        v/c ratio (ICU criteria),
        independent of the current delay definition used.
        For the criteria, refer to the "Level of Service" topic in the
        SIDRA Output Guide or the Output section of the on-line help.
     * Maximum v/c ratio, or critical green periods
     " Movement Level of service has been determined using adjacent lane
        v/c ratio rather than short lane v/c ratio (v/c=1.0)





Input Volumes
Total flow rates as given by the user (veh/60 min)

La Costa Ave Gibraltar St

2030 PM With Project

                                                                                                   Intersection
                                                                                                       Type
                                                                                                     Roundabout



                                                                                                  No color code
                                                                                                  in this display




Site: 2030 PM With Project
N:\KOA11\B14055 La Costa Road Evaulation-Phase II\Deliverables\July 2011\LOS Analysis\Sidra\Gibraltar.aap
Processed Aug 15, 2011 10:48:29AM

A1620, KOA Corporation, Small Office
Produced by SIDRA Intersection 3.1.061208.34
Copyright 2000-2006 Akcelik and Associates Pty Ltd
www.sidrasolutions.com


Table R.0 - Roundabout Basic Parameters

   La Costa Ave   Gibraltar St
   2030 PM With Project
   Intersection ID: 1
   Roundabout

   ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               Circulating/Exiting Stream
    Cent Circ Insc No.of No.of Av.Ent ----------------------------------------
   Island Width Diam. Circ. Entry Lane    Flow %HV Adjust. %Exit Cap.       O-D
    Diam              Lanes Lanes Width (veh/        Flow    Incl. Constr. Factor
    (ft) (ft) (ft)                (ft)     h)        (pcu/h)       Effect
   ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   West: W La Costa Ave
     Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
     52    18    88     1     1   13.00     33   0.0     33     0     N    0.994
   ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   East: E. La Costa Ave
     Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
     52    18    88     1     1   13.00     42   0.0     42     0     N    0.997
   ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   North: Gibraltar St
     Environment Factor: 1.00   Entry/Circulating Flow Adjustment: Medium
     52    18    88     1     1   13.00    600   0.0    600     0     N    0.963
   ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Table S.15 - Capacity and Level of Service

   La Costa Ave   Gibraltar St
   2030 PM With Project
   Intersection ID: 1
   Roundabout

   -----------------------------------------------------------------
    Mov     Mov    Total Total     Deg.   Aver.   LOS Longest Queue
    ID      Typ    Flow    Cap.     of    Delay          95% Back
                   (veh   (veh     Satn                 (vehs) (ft)
                     /h)    /h)    (v/c) (sec)
   -----------------------------------------------------------------
   West: W La Costa Ave
     5L L             42     67   0.627*   12.1    B      8.6    216
     2T T            923   1483   0.622     7.0    B      8.6    216
   -----------------------------------------------------------------
   East: E. La Costa Ave
     6T T            600   1465   0.410     6.9    A      3.8     94
     6R R              7     17   0.412     7.8    A      3.8     94
   -----------------------------------------------------------------
   North: Gibraltar St
     7L L             33    779   0.042    15.1    A      0.3      7
     4R R              1     24   0.042    10.9    A      0.3      7
   -----------------------------------------------------------------
    ALL VEHICLES:   1606          0.627            B      8.6    216
   -----------------------------------------------------------------
        Level of Service calculations are based on
        v/c ratio (ICU criteria),
        independent of the current delay definition used.
        For the criteria, refer to the "Level of Service" topic in the
        SIDRA Output Guide or the Output section of the on-line help.
     * Maximum v/c ratio, or critical green periods
     " Movement Level of service has been determined using adjacent lane
        v/c ratio rather than short lane v/c ratio (v/c=1.0)

            Attachment E:
PHASE I/II Versus Comparison Tables
                                        Table 7
                      Existing Conditions Segmental Comparison

                                                           La Costa Improvement
                                        Phase I/II                 Plan
                                 SANTEC      Florida             Carlsbad
                                           AM-     PM-
#       Segment Location          Daily    WB      EB       AM-WB      PM-EB
Existing Without Project
        West of Nueva Castilla
    1 Way                           C       C        C           A        A
    2 West of Calle Madero          C       C        C           A        A
        West of Cadencia
    3 Street                        C       D        D           A        A
 Existing With Project
        West of Nueva Castilla
    1 Way                           F       C        F           A        B
    2 West of Calle Madero          F       C        D           A        B
        West of Cadencia
    3 Street                        E       D        D           A        B

                                      Table 8
                      Future Conditions Segmental Comparison

                                                           La Costa Improvement
                                        Phase I/II                 Plan
                                 SANTEC      Florida             Carlsbad
                                           AM-     PM-
#      Segment Location           Daily    WB      EB       AM-WB      PM-EB
Future Without Project
       West of Nueva Castilla
    1 Way                           D       C        C           A        A
    2 West of Calle Madero          C       C        D           A        A
       West of Cadencia
    3 Street                        D       D        D           A        A
 Future With Project
       West of Nueva Castilla
    1 Way                           F        F       F           A        B
    2 West of Calle Madero          F        F       F           A        B
       West of Cadencia
    3 Street                        F       D        F           A        B
                                     Table 9
                   Existing Conditions Intersection Comparison
                            Phase I/II ­ HCM     La Costa Avenue Improvement
                                (delay)                 Plan ­ ICU (v/c)
    Intersection                         LOS                         LOS
#   Location               Control     AM PM      Control       AM       PM
Existing Without Project
                           Side
    La Costa Avenue at     Street               Side Street
1   Nueva Castilla Way     Stop       C    F       Stop          A      B
     La Costa Avenue
    at Viejo Castillo
2   Way                    Signal     A    A       Signal        A      B
    La Costa Avenue at
3   Romeria Street         Signal     A    A       Signal        A      A
    La Costa Avenue at
4   Cadencia Street        Signal     A    B       Signal        A      A
Existing With Project
    La Costa Avenue at
1   Nueva Castilla Way     Signal     A    A    Roundabout       A      A
     La Costa Avenue
    at Viejo Castillo
2   Way                    Signal     A    A       Signal        A      A
    La Costa Avenue at
3   Romeria Street         Signal     B    A    Roundabout       A      A
    La Costa Avenue at
4   Cadencia Street        Signal     B    A       Signal        A      A
                                      Table 10
                      Future Conditions Intersection Comparison
                              Phase I/II ­ HCM     La Costa Avenue Improvement
                                  (delay)                 Plan ­ ICU (v/c)
    Intersection                           LOS                         LOS
#   Location                 Control     AM PM      Control       AM       PM
Future Without Project
                             Side
    La Costa Avenue at       Street               Side Street
1   Nueva Castilla Way       Stop       A    A       Stop         A       A
     La Costa Avenue
    at Viejo Castillo
2   Way                      Signal     A    A       Signal       A       A
    La Costa Avenue at
3   Romeria Street           Signal     B    A       Signal       A       B
    La Costa Avenue at
4   Cadencia Street          Signal     B    B       Signal       A       B
Future With Project
    La Costa Avenue at
1   Nueva Castilla Way       Signal     A    C    Roundabout      D       C
     La Costa Avenue
    at Viejo Castillo
2   Way                      Signal     A    B       Signal       B       B
    La Costa Avenue at
3   Romeria Street           Signal     B    A    Roundabout      A       A
    La Costa Avenue at
4   Cadencia Street          Signal     B    B       Signal       A       B
Attachment F:
Cost Estimate
Order of Magnitude, Planning-Level Cost Estimate

CONSTRUCTION COSTS
                                              LOW                  HIGH
LOCATION 1                              $            180,000   $          290,000
LOCATION 2                              $            100,000   $          160,000
LOCATION 3                              $            110,000   $          170,000
LOCATION 4                              $            100,000   $          150,000
LOCATION 5                              $            210,000   $          320,000
LOCATION 6                              $            120,000   $          180,000
LOCATION 7                              $             80,000   $          120,000
LOCATION 8                              $            100,000   $          160,000
LOCATION 9                              $            290,000   $          450,000
LOCATION 10                             $            160,000   $          250,000
LOCATION 11                             $             30,000   $           50,000
LOCATION 12                             $             40,000   $           60,000
LOCATION 13                             $            180,000   $          270,000
STRIPING (ENTIRE PROJECT)               $            100,000   $          140,000
SIDEWALK (MISSING LINKS)                $            640,000   $          870,000

SUBTOTAL                                $          2,440,000   $     3,640,000




ENGINEERING, ADMINISTRATIVE, AND OTHER COSTS

TRAFFIC CONTROL AND MOBILIZATION @ 8%   $            195,200   $          291,200
DESIGN, CM, AND ADMIN. @ 20%            $            488,000   $          728,000

TOTAL                                   $          3,123,200   $     4,659,200
LOCATION 1 - ENTRY, MEDIAN, & NARROWING (A)

                                          LOW             LOW           HIGH          HIGH
Removal Items                         Unit Price        TOTAL       Unit Price      TOTAL
AC Pavement Removal   8520   sqft     $      1.50     $   12,780    $     3.00    $   25,560
Concrete Removal      3000   sqft     $      3.00     $    9,000    $     5.00    $   15,000



Construction Items
Full Depth AC         1680   sqft     $        8.00   $    13,440   $     10.00   $    16,800
Concrete Sidewalk     3000   sqft     $        5.00   $    15,000   $      6.00   $    18,000
Curb and Gutter        600   ft       $       20.00   $    12,000   $     34.00   $    20,400
Median Curb            240   ft       $       12.00   $     2,880   $     16.00   $     3,840
Landscape             6840   sqft     $       12.00   $    82,080   $     20.00   $   136,800

SUBTOTAL                                              $ 147,180                   $ 236,400

Contingency
@ 20%                                                 $    29,440                 $    47,280

TOTAL                                                 $ 180,000                   $ 290,000
LOCATION 2 - PARTIAL MEDIAN & NARROWING (B)

                                         LOW           LOW           HIGH          HIGH
Removal Items                        Unit Price      TOTAL       Unit Price      TOTAL
AC Pavement Removal   4680   sqft    $      1.50   $    7,020    $     3.00    $   14,040
Concrete Removal      1500   sqft    $      3.00   $    4,500    $     5.00    $    7,500



Construction Items
Full Depth AC         1080   sqft    $      8.00   $     8,640   $     10.00   $    10,800
Concrete Sidewalk     1500   sqft    $      5.00   $     7,500   $      6.00   $     9,000
Curb and Gutter        300   ft      $     20.00   $     6,000   $     34.00   $    10,200
Median Curb            240   ft      $     12.00   $     2,880   $     16.00   $     3,840
Landscape             3600   sqft    $     12.00   $    43,200   $     20.00   $    72,000

SUBTOTAL                                           $   79,740                  $ 127,380

Contingency
@ 20%                                              $    15,950                 $    25,480

TOTAL                                              $ 100,000                   $ 160,000
LOCATION 3 - NARROWING (C)

                                        LOW           LOW           HIGH          HIGH
Removal Items                       Unit Price      TOTAL       Unit Price      TOTAL
AC Pavement Removal   3040   sqft   $      1.50   $    4,560    $     3.00    $    9,120
Concrete Removal      3000   sqft   $      3.00   $    9,000    $     5.00    $   15,000



Construction Items
Full Depth AC         1200   sqft   $      8.00   $     9,600   $     10.00   $    12,000
Concrete Sidewalk     3000   sqft   $      5.00   $    15,000   $      6.00   $    18,000
Curb and Gutter        600   ft     $     20.00   $    12,000   $     34.00   $    20,400
Concrete Driveway     2000   sqft   $      8.00   $    16,000   $     12.00   $    24,000
Landscape             1840   sqft   $     12.00   $    22,080   $     20.00   $    36,800

SUBTOTAL                                          $   88,240                  $ 135,320

Contingency
@ 20%                                             $    17,650                 $    27,070

TOTAL                                             $ 110,000                   $ 170,000
LOCATION 4 - NARROWING (C ) & PARTIAL MEDIAN

                                          LOW           LOW           HIGH          HIGH
Removal Items                         Unit Price      TOTAL       Unit Price      TOTAL
AC Pavement Removal   4880   sqft     $      1.50   $    7,320    $     3.00    $   14,640
Concrete Removal      2000   sqft     $      3.00   $    6,000    $     5.00    $   10,000



Construction Items
Full Depth AC         1520   sqft     $      8.00   $    12,160   $     10.00   $    15,200
Concrete Sidewalk     2000   sqft     $      5.00   $    10,000   $      6.00   $    12,000
Curb and Gutter        400   ft       $     20.00   $     8,000   $     34.00   $    13,600
Median Curb            360   ft       $     12.00   $     4,320   $     16.00   $     5,760
Concrete Driveway     2000   sqft     $      8.00   $    16,000   $     12.00   $    24,000
Landscape             1360   sqft     $     12.00   $    16,320   $     20.00   $    27,200

SUBTOTAL                                            $   80,120                  $ 122,400

Contingency
@ 20%                                               $    16,030                 $    24,480

TOTAL                                               $ 100,000                   $ 150,000
LOCATION 5 - ROUNDABOUT (NUEVA CASTILLA WAY)

                                         LOW           LOW           HIGH          HIGH
Removal Items                        Unit Price      TOTAL       Unit Price      TOTAL
AC Pavement Removal   10800   sqft   $      1.50   $   16,200    $     3.00    $   32,400
Concrete Removal       3750   sqft   $      3.00   $   11,250    $     5.00    $   18,750



Construction Items
Full Depth AC         3500    sqft   $      8.00   $    28,000   $     10.00   $    35,000
Concrete Sidewalk     3750    sqft   $      5.00   $    18,750   $      6.00   $    22,500
Curb and Gutter        750    ft     $     20.00   $    15,000   $     34.00   $    25,500
Median Curb            250    ft     $     12.00   $     3,000   $     16.00   $     4,000
Concrete Driveway     2500    sqft   $      8.00   $    20,000   $     12.00   $    30,000
Landscape             4800    sqft   $     12.00   $    57,600   $     20.00   $    96,000

SUBTOTAL                                           $ 169,800                   $ 264,150

Contingency
@ 20%                                              $    33,960                 $    52,830

TOTAL                                              $ 210,000                   $ 320,000
LOCATION 6 - NARROWING (C )

                                        LOW           LOW           HIGH          HIGH
Removal Items                       Unit Price      TOTAL       Unit Price      TOTAL
AC Pavement Removal   5040   sqft   $      1.50   $    7,560    $     3.00    $   15,120
Concrete Removal      3000   sqft   $      3.00   $    9,000    $     5.00    $   15,000



Construction Items
Full Depth AC         1200   sqft   $      8.00   $     9,600   $     10.00   $    12,000
Concrete Sidewalk     3000   sqft   $      5.00   $    15,000   $      6.00   $    18,000
Curb and Gutter        600   ft     $     20.00   $    12,000   $     34.00   $    20,400
Concrete Driveway     1250   sqft   $      8.00   $    10,000   $     12.00   $    15,000
Landscape             2590   sqft   $     12.00   $    31,080   $     20.00   $    51,800

SUBTOTAL                                          $   94,240                  $ 147,320

Contingency
@ 20%                                             $    18,850                 $    29,470

TOTAL                                             $ 120,000                   $ 180,000
LOCATION 7 - PARTIAL MEDIAN & LEFT-TURN MEDIAN

                                          LOW           LOW           HIGH          HIGH
Removal Items                         Unit Price      TOTAL       Unit Price      TOTAL
AC Pavement Removal   4320   sqft     $      1.50   $    6,480    $     3.00    $   12,960



Construction Items
Full Depth AC         1280   sqft     $      8.00   $    10,240   $     10.00   $    12,800
Median curb            640   ft       $     12.00   $     7,680   $     16.00   $    10,240
Landscape             3040   sqft     $     12.00   $    36,480   $     20.00   $    60,800

SUBTOTAL                                            $   60,880                  $    96,800

Contingency
@ 20%                                               $    12,180                 $    19,360

TOTAL                                               $   80,000                  $ 120,000
LOCATION 8 - PARTIAL MEDIAN & NARROWING

                                          LOW          LOW           HIGH          HIGH
Removal Items                       Unit Price       TOTAL       Unit Price      TOTAL
AC Pavement Removal   4680   sqft   $      1.50    $    7,020    $     3.00    $   14,040
Concrete Removal      1500   sqft   $      3.00    $    4,500    $     5.00    $    7,500



Construction Items
Full Depth AC         1080   sqft   $       8.00   $     8,640   $     10.00   $    10,800
Concrete Sidewalk     1500   sqft   $       5.00   $     7,500   $      6.00   $     9,000
Curb and Gutter        300   ft     $      20.00   $     6,000   $     34.00   $    10,200
Median Curb            240   ft     $      12.00   $     2,880   $     16.00   $     3,840
Landscape             3600   sqft   $      12.00   $    43,200   $     20.00   $    72,000

SUBTOTAL                                           $   79,740                  $ 127,380

Contingency
@ 20%                                              $    15,950                 $    25,480

TOTAL                                              $ 100,000                   $ 160,000
LOCATION 9 - ROUNDABOUT (ROMERIA ST)

                                            LOW           LOW           HIGH          HIGH
Removal Items                           Unit Price      TOTAL       Unit Price      TOTAL
AC Pavement Removal      13000   sqft   $      1.50   $   19,500    $      3.00   $   39,000
Concrete Removal          5000   sqft   $      3.00   $   15,000    $      5.00   $   25,000
Traffic Signal Removal      1    ea     $    20,000   $   20,000    $ 30,000.00   $   30,000



Construction Items
Full Depth AC            4600    sqft   $      8.00   $    36,800   $     10.00   $    46,000
Concrete Sidewalk        5000    sqft   $      5.00   $    25,000   $      6.00   $    30,000
Curb and Gutter          1000    ft     $     20.00   $    20,000   $     34.00   $    34,000
Median Curb               300    ft     $     12.00   $     3,600   $     16.00   $     4,800
Concrete Driveway         750    sqft   $      8.00   $     6,000   $     12.00   $     9,000
Landscape                7650    sqft   $     12.00   $    91,800   $     20.00   $   153,000

SUBTOTAL                                              $ 237,700                   $ 370,800

Contingency
@ 20%                                                 $    47,540                 $    74,160

TOTAL                                                 $ 290,000                   $ 450,000
LOCATION 10 - NARROWING & PARTIAL MEDIAN

                                        LOW            LOW           HIGH          HIGH
Removal Items                       Unit Price       TOTAL       Unit Price      TOTAL
AC Pavement Removal   8280   sqft   $      1.50    $   12,420    $     3.00    $   24,840
Concrete Removal      1500   sqft   $      3.00    $    4,500    $     5.00    $    7,500



Construction Items
Full Depth AC         1800   sqft   $       8.00   $    14,400   $     10.00   $    18,000
Concrete Sidewalk     2700   sqft   $       5.00   $    13,500   $      6.00   $    16,200
Curb and Gutter        540   ft     $      20.00   $    10,800   $     34.00   $    18,360
Median Curb            360   ft     $      12.00   $     4,320   $     16.00   $     5,760
Concrete Driveway     1500   sqft   $       8.00   $    12,000   $     12.00   $    18,000
Landscape             4980   sqft   $      12.00   $    59,760   $     20.00   $    99,600

SUBTOTAL                                           $ 131,700                   $ 208,260

Contingency
@ 20%                                              $    26,340                 $    41,660

TOTAL                                              $ 160,000                   $ 250,000
LOCATION 11 - NARROWING

                                        LOW           LOW           HIGH          HIGH
Removal Items                       Unit Price      TOTAL       Unit Price      TOTAL
AC Pavement Removal   1400   sqft   $      1.50   $    2,100    $     3.00    $    4,200
Concrete Removal       500   sqft   $      3.00   $    1,500    $     5.00    $    2,500



Construction Items
Full Depth AC          200   sqft   $      8.00   $     1,600   $     10.00   $     2,000
Concrete Sidewalk      500   sqft   $      5.00   $     2,500   $      6.00   $     3,000
Curb and Gutter        100   ft     $     20.00   $     2,000   $     34.00   $     3,400
Landscape             1200   sqft   $     12.00   $    14,400   $     20.00   $    24,000

SUBTOTAL                                          $   24,100                  $    39,100

Contingency
@ 20%                                             $     4,820                 $     7,820

TOTAL                                             $   30,000                  $    50,000
LOCATION 12 - ENTRY MEDIAN (D)

                                        LOW           LOW           HIGH          HIGH
Removal Items                       Unit Price      TOTAL       Unit Price      TOTAL
AC Pavement Removal   1960   sqft   $      1.50   $    2,940    $     3.00    $    5,880



Construction Items
Full Depth AC          560   sqft   $      8.00   $     4,480   $     10.00   $     5,600
Median curb            280   ft     $     12.00   $     3,360   $     16.00   $     4,480
Landscape             1400   sqft   $     12.00   $    16,800   $     20.00   $    28,000

SUBTOTAL                                          $   27,580                  $    43,960

Contingency
@ 20%                                             $     5,520                 $     8,800

TOTAL                                             $   40,000                  $    60,000
LOCATION 13 - FUTURE SIGNAL (LEVANE ST)

                                            LOW            LOW         HIGH           HIGH
Construction Items                        Unit Price    TOTAL        Unit Price    TOTAL
Traffic Signal        1   ea              $ 150,000    $ 150,000     $ 220,000    $ 220,000



SUBTOTAL                                               $ 150,000                  $ 220,000

Contingency
@ 20%                                                  $    30,000                $    44,000

TOTAL                                                  $ 180,000                  $ 270,000
STRIPING

                                      LOW           LOW           HIGH          HIGH
Removal Items                     Unit Price      TOTAL       Unit Price      TOTAL
Striping Removal       1     LS   $    20,000   $   20,000    $    40,000   $   40,000



Construction Items
Striping             75000   ft   $      0.75   $    56,250   $      1.00   $    75,000



SUBTOTAL                                        $   76,250                  $ 115,000

Contingency
@ 20%                                           $    15,250                 $    23,000

TOTAL                                           $ 100,000                   $ 140,000
SIDEWALK (MISSING LINKS)

                                                LOW           LOW           HIGH          HIGH
Removal Items                               Unit Price      TOTAL       Unit Price      TOTAL
Curb & Gutter Removal       5400     ft     $      2.00   $   10,800    $     3.00    $   16,200



Construction Items
Concrete Sidewalk            27000   sqft   $      5.00   $   135,000   $      6.00   $   162,000
Retaining Wall*              15500   sqft   $     25.00   $   387,500   $     35.00   $   542,500
  * Est. @ 50% of S/W length

SUBTOTAL                                                  $ 533,300                   $ 720,700

Contingency
@ 20%                                                     $   106,660                 $   144,140

TOTAL                                                     $ 640,000                   $ 870,000
                                       LOCATION 4



             LOCATION 2                             LOCATION 5
                          LOCATION 3
LOCATION 1
                                                    LOCATION 10



                                       LOCATION 9             LOCATION 11




                                                                  LOCATION 12
LOCATION 6
                          LOCATION 8


             LOCATION 7




                                                                      LOCATION 13
